Relevance to AI (is the paper appropriate for ECAI?)
7

Originality (does the work contain new ideas?)
5

Significance (will the results have any impact on the field?)
5

Technical Soundness
6

Presentation (is the paper readable and well-organized?)
4

Scholarship (is relevant literature cited and is the scientific context discussed?)
6

Reviewer Competence/Confidence
5

Overall Recommendation
5


Comments to author(s)

The paper proposes a new objective function for meeting scheduling
that combines global utility function, individual agent preferences
and fairness between agents. The paper is difficult to read because of
some typos, missing definitions and, in some parts, lack of
formalization (see detailed comments below). 

The structure of the paper could be improved by presenting once and
for all the complete model (currently described in sections 2 and then
complemented in section 3). Then the example could be used also to
illustrate how the fairness between agent is taken into account in the
objective.

The Individual Rationality principle seems to be a very strong
assumption in the context of meeting scheduling. It says that the
agent must agree to any given schedule of a meeting on which they
decide to participate. That's quite far from the reality where agents
may be interested in attending a meeting but may finally decide not to
attend it because of the date it is scheduled. Another related
assumption is the fact that if a meeting is scheduled, it means that
all the agents involved in the meeting will attend it. When the agents
calendars are quite full, it is usually necessary to make a compromise
between who will effectively attend the meeting and the date when the
meeting will be scheduled.

The approach involves many parameters that are combined in the
objective function. An important issue for the usability of the
approach is how these parameters values can be acquired. Because they
are combined together, they somehow need to be homogeneous. For
instance, for a user of the system how to relate the cost for a
meeting to be 1 day late compared with the individual priorities of
agents for this meeting? 

Detailed comments:

- Definition 5: in the definition, it seems clear that the function
DCF is independent from the agents but then, I do not understand why
it is summed up in the computation of the MU for each agent.

- After Definition 7 in the example: the fact the DCF is 0 is a
consequence of the item just above, it is not necessary to precise it
as a new item

- After Definition 8: it is probably a typo: on should read MUs
instead of MFs.

- Definition 11: FF is not mentioned in the input tuple. Furthermore,
it is said that f returns a "global utility" whereas in the formula
for the output one reads: G = global utility - f(quality).

- Beginning of section 4: the notion of moving cost factor has never
been introduced. Is it a multiplicative factor on the moving cost
value ? Or is it the moving cost value itself ?

- It would be interesting to give a little bit more information about
the B&B approach used to solve the problem. The problem involving 20
agents, 30 meetings and 12 time-slots does not seem very large for a
state-of-the-art COP solver. 

- The explanation for the second experiment is really not clear. Does
the paragraph introducing the QualityAcceptablePoint defines a
particular function f of definition 11 ? In this case, it would be
good to formally define the values of f in this experiment.

- Last page, column 1: schedulling

- In conclusion: the problem then previous papers => ... than ...


Confidential comments to PC members

