Relevance to AI (is the paper appropriate for ECAI?) *					8
Originality (does the work contain new ideas?) *					6
Significance (will the results have any impact on the field?) *				5
Technical Soundness *									5
Presentation (is the paper readable and well-organized?) *				6
Scholarship (is relevant literature cited and is the scientific context discussed?) *	5
Reviewer Competence/Confidence *							3
Overall Recommendation *								5	
	

Comments to author(s) * 	

The paper is appropriate for ECAI as it describes an automated
recommender system that combines off-line data mining techniques with
on-line user cooperation. 

Not being a specialist in data mining and recommender systems, I found
the paper fairly easy to read and well organised. A few points could be
made more clear:

- in section 2, some filtering algorithms (user-based, item-based,
OC1, C4.5) are mentioned, maybe some words should be said or at least
a reference given about each of them.

- in section 5.1.4, it is not clear why the value of the accuracy is
globally lower in the case two followed courses are given (even for
low support values). Intuitively, I expected the accuracy to be
greater as the system has more information to take its recommending
decisions. 

- in the algorithm to update the rules on the second column of p4, the
'else' reads "S did not find the recommended courses
interesting". Shouldn't one read something like "S did not follow the
recommended courses" as it is not an evaluation of the courses
themselves but of the recommendation (the courses were not followed).

It is mentioned in the last section that prerequisites are not handled
by the current system. But if course B is a prerequisite for course A,
is it not the case that the rule A=>B is systematically selected with
a confidence equal to 1 and a fairly high support (depending on the
selection rate of the course)? So, if a user selects a course A, the
prerequisited course B will be recommended, right?

Would it be useful in the approach to generate rules that are more
complex than just A=>B ? For instance A=>(B or C), etc.

In the modelling subsection (5.1.3) and in the experimental evaluation,
there is not a clear comparison of the different approaches for
learning rules. Why C4.5 and the Apriori algorithm were selected? It
would be very useful to compare the selected algorithms against other
techniques (bayes nets, case-based reasoning, etc.).

There is no evaluation of the on-line phase. 

Confidential comments to PC members 	

As said in the comments to author(s), really not an expert in the field.

Summary of review (to author(s) and PC members) * 	

The paper is appropriate for ECAI, easy to read and well organized.

Not being a specialist in data mining and recommender systems, I
cannot really asses the originality of the paper. The lack of
experimental comparison with other systems makes it hard to evaluate
the interest of the presented approach.

Nominate for best paper: NO