
High level overview:

/ILOG CP/ for scheduling:  a developer and user's perspective 

1. ILOG CP for Scheduling from inside
From the perspective of one of the developpers of the tool

2. ILOG CP for Scheduling in action
From the perspective of a CP researcher or engineer using the tool

3. ILOG CP for Scheduling hereafter
Current and future developments


//-- Discussion with Amedeo:

I would like to invite you to synthesize a lecture out of your
experience that has involved both the development of a tool (the
suite) for general use and work as a researcher in scheduling with a
CP background.


I think that the experience of ILOG is very interesting in the context
of a full day with 6 talks dedicated to scheduling because it is a
rather unique example of a tool that has integrated the experience of
a number of scientists arriving also to have a commercial perspective.
But giving a talk on the ILOG experience has the risk of ending up
being just advertising and so not adequate for a school.  Nevertheless
the help that a tool (like the schedule suite) can give both to a
scientist developing new solutions for an open problem and to an
engineer developing a complete solution for a real world problem is
not trivial and is making a significant impact to justify also new
research (see for example the work that Pascal VH and Laurent Michel
have done for COMET).

Being you a scientist that is involved in both the development of the
"new" tool and also in doing research on scheduling, I'm very
interested in extracting some of your experience of ... 10 years? ,
knowing how you approach a new problem having this tool
available. Given this desiderata, I am assuming that you can reuse
some of your material on time-resource propagation but also, describe
how you synthesize a complete new algorithm taking advantage of the
features of the tool, that "somehow accumulate work and experience of
others scheduling people" including yourself that have contributed to
develop it, and giving an example on some of your recent results
attaching difficult problems.  The effect is a talk from a CP person
with an eye to the tool that supports his own work, with some final
comment on future developments in the tool direction.


As a developper of the tool
-> Current content of ILOG Scheduler (ILOG CP 1.2 for Scheduling)

As a researcher using this tool
-> Describe help that a tool (like the schedule suite) can give both 
  * to a scientist developing new solutions for an open problem and 
  * to an engineer developing a complete solution for a real world problem
-> how you synthesize a complete new algorithm taking advantage of the
features of the tool, that "somehow accumulate work and experience of
others scheduling people"
-> give example of some recent results attaching difficult problems

Future directions
-> final comment on future developments in the tool direction

