Review

PAPER: A Two-Individual Based Evolutionary Algorithm for the Flexible Job Shop Scheduling Problem

Relevance
1-10 -> 5
Is the paper fully within the scope of the conference? Will the questions and results of the paper be of interest to researchers in the field?

Significance
1-10 -> 5
Is this a significant advance in the state of the art? Is this a paper that people are likely to read and cite? Does the paper address an important problem? Does it open new research directions? Is it a paper that is likely to have a lasting impact?

Originality
1-10 -> 6
Reviewers should recognise and reward papers that propose genuinely new ideas. As a reviewer you should try to assess whether the ideas are truly new. Novel combinations, adaptations or extensions of existing ideas are also valuable.

Technical Quality
1-10 -> 5
Are the results technically sound? Are there obvious flaws in the conceptual approach? Are claims well-supported by theoretical analysis or experimental results? Are the experiments well thought out and convincing? Will it be possible for other researchers to replicate these results? Is the evaluation appropriate? Did the authors clearly assess both the strengths and weaknesses of their approach?

Clarity and quality of writing
1-10 -> 6
Is the paper clearly written? Is there a good use of examples and figures? Is it well organized? Are there problems with style and grammar? Are there issues with typos, formatting, references, etc.? It may be better to advise the authors to revise a paper and submit to a later conference, than to accept and publish a poorly-written version. However, if the paper is likely to be accepted, please make suggestions to improve the clarity of the paper, and provide details of typos.
Scholarship

Scholarship
1-10 -> 4
Does the paper situate the work with respect to the state of the art? Are relevant papers cited, discussed, and compared to the presented work?


Overall Score
1-10 -> 4
10- This is best-paper material. 9- An excellent paper, a very strong accept. 8-A very good paper, a strong accept 7-A good paper, accept. 6-A good paper overall. I vote for acceptance, although would not be upset if it were rejected because of the low acceptance rate. 5-Decent paper, but may be below the IJCAI threshold. I tend to vote for rejecting it, although would not be upset if it were accepted. 4-I vote for rejecting it, but could be persuaded otherwise. 3-A weak paper, just not good enough. 2-A clear rejection. I vote and argue for rejection. Clearly below the standards of the conference. 1-A very strong rejection. I will actively fight for rejection.

Confidence on your assessment
1-10 -> 9
10-My own current research is on the topic of the paper, 9-I have undertaken research on the topic of the paper, 8-I am an expert in this area, 7-I have up-to-date knowledge in the area, 6-I don't have complete knowledge of the area, but can assess the value of the work, 5-I have a general understanding of the area, 4-My assessment is an informed guess, 3-My knowledge in the area is limited, 2-My knowledge in the area is very limited, 1-My assessment can be wrong


Comments to Authors.

Make sure you substantiate all the scores for the different criteria above. Give informative content. Be constructive. Write your comments in the same way you would like to receive comments on your own papers.

The article describes a very involved heuristic for solving the flexible job-shop scheduling problem (FJSSP). The general framework is a very specific type of evolutionary algorithm with only two individuals that are combined using path-relinking and local search. The use of path-relinking and local search in the context of evolutionary algorithms is not really new. The main contribution of the paper is the combination of these methods in a context where there are only two individuals (Master-Apprentice Evolutionary algorithm: MAE) in the population and its application to the very specific case of FJSSP. 

The paper is certainly interesting in the context of a conference on particular scheduling problems or with a strong focus on meta-heuristics but, given how sophisticated (and thus, in a certain sense, very fragile) the approach is, I'm not sure there is a strong enough generic idea underneath for a general AI conference as IJCAI.

The approach exhibits a large number of parameters (p, alpha, bta, gamma, threshold for considering two solutions as too close, number of LS iterations) and some design choices are not motivated enough (for instance, the distance measure in section 2.3, see below). As a result, it seems that the design space of the approach is so huge that indeed, by carefully tuning all these parameters, it is possible to get decent results on the benchmark. But I'm not sure it is an advantage of the approach.

Concerning the results, I think the statement in the introduction "Specifically, it improves the previous best known results for 47 instances while matching the best known results on all except 5 of the remaining instances with reasonable computational time" is wrong. When one compare to the state-of-the-art results on [1], it seems that the best solution over the 20 runs of MAE only improves 3 upper-bounds (the Dauzere instances 05a, 07a and 13a) and for 13 instances, the results are worse than the best known solutions.

The statement that "For large FJSP instances, exact methods are ineffective." should be justified. In particular, the bibliographical section completly ignores the recent advances in Constraint Programming which have shown to be particularly efficient on scheduling problems like the FJSSP, see for instance [2]. These exact methods have been used to improve both upper and lower bounds and close many of the classical instances mentioned in the present article [3].

Some more detailed comments:
- In the description of the MAE algoithm in section 2 (and Algorithm 1), the two individuals S1 and S2 do not seem to have a symmetric role: it is S1 that receives the master of the previous cycle and S2 that receives the random solution when the two solutions are too close. Maybe you should give a bit more details about it. I suspect that S2 is responsible for the introduction of some diversification in the process whereas S1 s more responsible for intensification.
- In section 2.3, the definition of the distance measurement seems very involved. In particular, it is surprising that the formula d(S1,S2)=min(P1+P2, (L1-P1)+(L2-P2)) aggregates with a "min" a term P that is the number of operations "before" a given operation and a term L-P that is a number of operations "after". I think the rationale behind this distance aggregation would deserve more details.
- It would be useful to give the algorithmic complexity of Algorithm 2.
- The selection of the candidate solutions in the path-relinking using the indexes (lines 19-23) is quite complex and looks a bit artificial (with the selection depending on the sum of two indexes that estimate very different things). It looks a bit like black magic here ...


[1] http://www.quintiq.com/optimization/flexible-job-shop-scheduling-problem-results.html

[2] P. Vilim, P. Laborie and P. Shaw. Failure-directed Search for Constraint-based Scheduling. Proc. 12th International Conference on Integration of AI and OR Techniques in Constraint Programming for Combinatorial Optimization Problems (CPAIOR 2015).
 
[3] https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/community/blogs/jfp/entry/solving_flexible_job_shop_scheduling_problems?lang=en (those are pretty old results from 2013, I suspect the CP engine has been improved since then)


Confidential Comments (Not visible to the authors)

Metareview

Summary of the strong and weak points of the paper. This text should justify your recommendation to the Area Chair about acceptance or rejection of the paper but do not mention anything about acceptance or rejection in the metareview as this text will be read by authors and the final decision on acceptance and rejection will be taken later in the process. Explain the impact of the rebuttal and the discussions and preserve the anonymity of the process.


Recommendation

Suggest Accept or Reject to the Area Chair. You may leave this Undecided.
