Review

PAPER: Local search for flexible due-date satisfaction in fuzzy job shop scheduling


Relevance
1-10 7
Is the paper fully within the scope of the conference? Will the questions and results of the paper be of interest to researchers in the field?
Significance

Significance
1-10 5
Is this a significant advance in the state of the art? Is this a paper that people are likely to read and cite? Does the paper address an important problem? Does it open new research directions? Is it a paper that is likely to have a lasting impact?
Originality

Originality
1-10 6
Reviewers should recognise and reward papers that propose genuinely new ideas. As a reviewer you should try to assess whether the ideas are truly new. Novel combinations, adaptations or extensions of existing ideas are also valuable.
Technical Quality

Technical Quality
1-10 5
Are the results technically sound? Are there obvious flaws in the conceptual approach? Are claims well-supported by theoretical analysis or experimental results? Are the experiments well thought out and convincing? Will it be possible for other researchers to replicate these results? Is the evaluation appropriate? Did the authors clearly assess both the strengths and weaknesses of their approach?

Clarity and quality of writing
1-10 7
Is the paper clearly written? Is there a good use of examples and figures? Is it well organized? Are there problems with style and grammar? Are there issues with typos, formatting, references, etc.? It may be better to advise the authors to revise a paper and submit to a later conference, than to accept and publish a poorly-written version. However, if the paper is likely to be accepted, please make suggestions to improve the clarity of the paper, and provide details of typos.
Scholarship

Scholarship
1-10 7
Does the paper situate the work with respect to the state of the art? Are relevant papers cited, discussed, and compared to the presented work?


Overall Score
1-10 -> 5

10- This is best-paper material. 9- An excellent paper, a very strong accept. 8-A very good paper, a strong accept 7-A good paper, accept. 6-A good paper overall. I vote for acceptance, although would not be upset if it were rejected because of the low acceptance rate. 5-Decent paper, but may be below the IJCAI threshold. I tend to vote for rejecting it, although would not be upset if it were accepted. 4-I vote for rejecting it, but could be persuaded otherwise. 3-A weak paper, just not good enough. 2-A clear rejection. I vote and argue for rejection. Clearly below the standards of the conference. 1-A very strong rejection. I will actively fight for rejection.
Confidence on your assessment

Confidence on your assessment
1-10 -> 8
10-My own current research is on the topic of the paper, 9-I have undertaken research on the topic of the paper, 8-I am an expert in this area, 7-I have up-to-date knowledge in the area, 6-I don't have complete knowledge of the area, but can assess the value of the work, 5-I have a general understanding of the area, 4-My assessment is an informed guess, 3-My knowledge in the area is limited, 2-My knowledge in the area is very limited, 1-My assessment can be wrong


Comments to Authors.

Make sure you substantiate all the scores for the different criteria above. Give informative content. Be constructive. Write your comments in the same way you would like to receive comments on your own papers.

The paper introduces a variant of the fuzzy job-shop scheduling problem (jobshop scheduling with operation duration being modeled as triangular fuzzy numbers) where the objective function consists in maximizing a piecewise linear preference function for due-dates. As far as the resolution of the problem is concerned, the main contribution is a local search neighborhood (strongly inspired from neighborhoods in classical deterministic job-shop problem) that is shown to have the desirable properties of feasibility and connectivity. This local search is integrated into an existing memetic algorithm framework and evaluated.

The article is clearly written: both the problem and the resolution approach are well described and with sufficient details. I appreciate the formalization effort.

The contribution is quite incremental: the fuzzy job-shop scheduling with fuzzy due-dates has already been studied but indeed, as advocated by the authors, the objective function of the present paper is slightly different (it is a preference on the due-date satisfaction, and there is no uncertainty at this level). And if the local search neighborhood is a classical one based on reversing machine arcs on the critical paths, the particularity of the objective function studied in the paper is exploited to adapt the definition of critical paths and compute dedicated bounds to prune the search.

My main criticism is that, given the direction of the paper, I'm not sure why it is still using the fuzzy set theory for this problem. The "real" problem that is being adressed - as it becomes clear in section 4 (experimental results) - seems to be a stochastic problem where the operation durations follow a certain probability distribution (at least, this is how the "accuracy" of the proposed fuzzy model is estimated: it is compared with the "actual" probability distribution using Monte-Carlo simulation). In this context, I wonder why you did not use an approach like a stochastic programming one, where the problem is solved by simultaneously reasoning on a number of 'n' scenarios. And in fact, if one looks in detail, the proposed approach is nothing more than a particular stochastic programming approach with 3 scenarios (1=optimistic, 2=modal, 3=pessimistic). It seems that re-framing the present work in the context of stochastic programming would generalize it: you could handle more complex distributions by carefully sampling them using more than 3 scenarios (this has an impact on the performances, of course). 

<<Comments after authors rebuttal>>>
* My intent was not to criticize the use of fuzzy sets for modeling uncertainties in scheduling in general and I known that in general, working with TFN does not necessarily mean working with 3 scenarios. It is more a very practical remark on the fact that if you look at the detail of how *your* method works on your problem, there is no difference with how you would treat the problem in stochastic programming with 3 scenarios (and if there is a difference, the I think that you should explain it in the context of your approach). Given that you ultimately estimate the accuracy of the fuzzy model using some probability distribution in the experimental section, it would (I think) make sense to directly work with this probability distribution in the problem, using a stochastic programming approach that is not limited to 3 scenarios but can approximate any distribution with some adequate sampling. The good new is that I think the approach you propose can almost directly be generalized to handle that.
* The objective function is not uncertain: it is a classical deterministic tardiness function of the end time of tasks. These types of cost functions are ubiquitous in deterministic scheduling. But of course as the end times of the tasks are uncertain, so is the *value* of the tardiness function.

Mode detailed comments:

- in Introduction: it could be useful to add some references for the minimization of project's makespan in the context of fuzzy job-shop.
- in section 2.1, using a "fuzzy set" for modeling the satisfaction of due-dates is misleading as, what you use is mostly a piecewise-linear function measuring the due-date violation. And this is exactly what you seem to suggest in section 2.3 ...
- in section 2.2, p3, col1: when using the index "j", at first it is not clear that this index represents a job. So when saying "The tail represents the time left after x until a job is
completed ...", I would add "... until a job **j** is completed ..."
- in section 4, close to the end: "This shows the great potential of the ESDavg estimation procedure, which yields the same performance in considerably shorter time.". As the estimation procedure only prunes non-improving moves, it is not really surprising that it does not change the exploration of the search space. And even if the gain in time is decent (40-50%), I wouldn't call it "considerable" (but I agree this is a bit subjective)

 

Confidential Comments (Not visible to the authors)

Metareview

Summary of the strong and weak points of the paper. This text should justify your recommendation to the Area Chair about acceptance or rejection of the paper but do not mention anything about acceptance or rejection in the metareview as this text will be read by authors and the final decision on acceptance and rejection will be taken later in the process. Explain the impact of the rebuttal and the discussions and preserve the anonymity of the process.


Recommendation

Suggest Accept or Reject to the Area Chair. You may leave this Undecided.
