Title:

Industrial project and machine scheduling with Constraint Programming

Abstract:

More often than not, project and machine scheduling problems are addressed either by generic
mathematical programming techniques (like MILP) or by problem-specific exact or heuristic
approaches. MILP formulations are commonly used to describe the problem in mathematical terms and
to provide optimal solutions or bounds to small problem instances. As they usually do not scale well,
one usually resorts to using heuristics for handling large and complex industrial problems.
Though constraint programming (CP) techniques represent the state of the art in several classical
project and machine scheduling benchmarks and have been used for almost 30 years for solving
industrial problems, they are still seldom considered as an alternative approach in the scheduling
community. A possible reason is that, for years, in the absence of efficient and robust automatic
search algorithms, CP techniques have been difficult to use for non-CP experts.
We will explain why we think this time is over and illustrate our arguments with CP Optimizer, a
generic system, largely based on CP, for modeling and solving real-world scheduling problems.
CP Optimizer extends linear programming with an algebraic language using simple mathematical
concepts (such as intervals, sequences and functions) to capture the temporal dimension of
scheduling problems in a combinatorial optimization framework. CP Optimizer implements a
model-and-run paradigm that vastly reduces the burden on the user to understand CP or scheduling
algorithms: modeling is by far the most important.  The automatic search combines a wide variety of
techniques from Artificial Intelligence (constraint programming, temporal reasoning, learning etc.)
and Operations Research (mathematical programming, graph algorithms, local search, etc.) in an exact
algorithm that provides good performance out of the box and which is continuously improving.

Bio:

Philippe Laborie is a Principal Scientist at IBM. He is one of the main designers of the
mathematical modeling language for scheduling problems offered in CPLEX Optimization Studio and a
significant contributor to the underlying automatic search algorithm. He graduated from
Telecom ParisTech in 1992, and received a PhD in Artificial Intelligence from LAAS/CNRS (Toulouse)
on the integration of Artificial Intelligence Planning and Scheduling in 1995. Before joining
IBM/ILOG in 1998, he worked at Electricité de France (Paris) and INRIA/IRISA (Rennes) on the
Supervision and Diagnosis of complex systems (telecommunication and power distribution networks).
His main scientific interests include planning, scheduling, supervision and diagnosis of complex
systems and more generally, all decision problems dealing with time. He received the 2011 ICAPS
Influential paper award. Philippe is member of the editorial board of the Journal of Artificial
Intelligence Research and serves in the Program Committee of many conferences in AI (IJCAI, AAAI,
ECAI, ICAPS, CP, CPAIOR, ...).
