Review for Journal of Applied Mathematics and Decision Sciences
---------------------------------------------------------------

Date: 17/04/02

Title: Parametric scheduling for network constraints

Author(s): K. Subramani


Reviewer's Recommendation
-------------------------
[ ] published in its present form
[ ] published with minor revisions
[X] has potential but requires more significant work
[ ] possesses little merit and cannot be recommended at all


Reviewer's Report
-----------------
I believe this work should be published but that major work needs to
be done on the clarity of the writing and on the connection with
existing work in the AI literature.

There are two main concerns.  First, the paper is lacking a good
definition of the problem that is being addressed. This does not
become apparent until Section 6, where the discussion of the on-line
dispatching techniques leads me to believe that the problem is
different that what I had understood through the bulk of the paper.  I
believe that early in the paper there should be a section that
informally defines the whole problem. Perhaps at the end of Section 2
some details can be added about exactly what is involved in answering
the schedulability query and about finding start times. If I have a
schedulable system, do I have to recompute the parametric
schedulability query each time I assign a value to a start time? This
seems to be implied in Section 6, but is not clear in the paper and
certainly not early enough.

The second concern I have is that this work seems to be the same as
existing work in the AI literature. In particular, the work that
appeared in:

@InProceedings{Morris01,
  author = 	 {Morris, P. and Muscettola, N. and Vidal, T.},
  title = 	 {Dynamic Control of Plans with Temporal Uncertainty},
  booktitle =    {Proceedings of the Seventeenth International Joint
		  Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-01)},
  year =	 2001
}

Given the differences in the AI and OR community it is possible that
the work presented in the current paper is subtly different (more or
even less general?). I think it is important that the relation
between these two pieces of work are fully understood.

To my knowledge the AI work has not yet been published in journal
form.

I would suggest that the AI work is specifically introduced and the
explicit connection between the two is made. This is important,
because I feel the AI community and OR community are (especially in
the area of uncertainty in planning and scheduling) overlapping but
few people in either field are knowledgeable about the work in the
other.  I would also suggest that the author sends preprints of the
current paper to the authors of the above article in order to
encourage more interaction between the communities.

Minor Comments
--------------
* Is the subject of the article within the scope of the journal?
     Yes

* Is this a new and original contribution?
     (see above comments)    

* Does the title clearly and sufficiently reflect its contents?
     Yes

* Are the organization, presentation and length satisfactory?
     The organization could be improved (see comments below)

* Is the quality of English satisfactory?
     In general, yes. There are however a number of typos and spelling
     mistakes for which there should be no excuse given modern
     spell-checkers. See below for details.

* Are the illustrations and tables necessary and acceptable?
     Yes

* Are the references adequate and are they all necessary?
     It is not clear that all the references are necessary as there
     are a few places in the paper (outside the literature review)
     where 3 or more references are given for relatively well-known
     results (e.g, p17 with respect to negative cost loops). It is
     unclear that as many as 7 of the authors previous papers need to
     be referenced.

     Additionally, it would be useful in unifying work done in OR and
     AI to cite some of the AI work (see the above reference and the
     papers it references) that has been on the same topic. (see my
     above comment)

* Other considerations you feel to be pertinent in view of your
  experience of research. 


p2: The author has a tendency to introduce concepts without definition
especially when discussing the previous work. For example, it would be
nice to have a definition of scheduling with worst case assumptions
and static scheduling.

p2: It is unclear to me how parametric scheduling attempts to
"combine the guarantees provided by static scheduling with with the
flexibility of stochastic scheduling". More details should be provided
to justify this claim.

Section 3: This section seems a bit misplaced. Perhaps it should be
combined with the introduction.

Section 5: It would be more useful to describe the algorithm before
presenting the pseudo-code. I would like to see a paragraph explaining
the algorithm before the presentation of the code.

p9: "inconsitences"

p10: I think there are a couple of errors here.
1) "Clearly, if u_1 <= f() ...", I think it should be "u_n"
2) "then l_i is satisfied by the initial system" instead of "l_i" it
   should be "g_i".

p10: A sketch of a proof by induction is started here by considering
the nth variable and eliminating it, but then there seems to be no
follow-up. What is the inductive step?  The author argues for the
correctness of the nth elimination and then just concludes "Thus, we
can continue eliminating ...". I think there needs to be a bit more
formality here, even in a sketch of the proof.

p13: "jos"

p14: Definition 5.5 seems a bit bizarre as it defines comparability
based on orientation and type and then, immediately afterward, a third
criteria (same jobs) are added. I think the same job requirement
should be incorporated into the definition.

p18-19: I am quite confused about the "Constraint Relaxation" section
as it suggests that the problem I thought we were addressing
throughout the paper is a bit different than has been defined so
far. In particular, it is not clear how "the feasible window lapses"
(It is not really clear what "lapses" means, but I guess it is "become
empty") during the on-line dispatching.  Minimally some example is
needed to explain the phenomenon of "Loss of Dispatchability" as well
as some comment on what "distributed strategies" are needed to
eliminate it. What is the complexity impact of these strategies? Is it
still guaranteed that for a parametrically schedulable system a
schedule can always be found? This is a very important point as it may
represent a different between this work and the work done in the AI
literature. 

p19: "and so o"

p20: why is "Linear programs" capitalized?

Appendix: I don't think the appendix adds very much. It could easily
be left out by adding a paragraph earlier in the paper with some
details about Fourier-Motzkin elimination.
