
Title:	 Self-Improvement through Self-Understanding
Authors: J. William Murdock, Ashok K. Goel


1. confidential comments to the editor
--------------------------------------

As for my initial review, this one should be moderated by the fact I'm
not an expert in many of the domains touched by the paper such as
Cased-Based Planning, Machine Learning, Meta-Reasoning and Agent
Modelling.

This new version of the article only contains some minor
revisions. The main problems have not been fixed.


2. overall evaluation of the paper
--------------------------------------

Weak reject.


3. comments to the authors. 
--------------------------------------

Overall comments
-------------------------------

This new version of the article clarifies the comparison with HTN
planning. It also makes more clear the term of "execution" (actual
execution v.s. simulation of execution). 

The technique of fixed-value production, which was not described in
enough details in the initial version, has been removed which I think
is a good thing.

But beside these improvements, I think the two main issues mentioned
in my initial review have not been fixed.

The paper is still missing a real focus between a high-level
description of the complete framework and a detailled description of
the relation mapping technique. If the revised version seems to be
slightly more focused on this last point, it really lacks some
formalization, in particular when explaining how similarity among
tasks is computed and how it is used to produce new tasks.

The fact the relation mapping approach is only illustrated throught
the - apparently very restrictive - disassembly/assembly inverse
relation is still an issue. It raises the question of the genericity
of the relation mapping technique.  The use of other relations such as
specialization and generalization is only mentionned in the logistics
example and is not detailed anywhere. I find the argument that if
relation mapping does it wrong, then reinforcement learning will fix
the situation by learning not to use the result of relation mapping is
very weak, in particular given that the genericity of the relation
mapping approach is not clear.

For these reasons, I'm still leaning to reject the arcticle.




