DECISION LETTER

Dear authors,
First of all, we apologise for this long delay, which unfortunately
was our of our control.
We received the reviews about your paper 

12-149
Scheduling Countermeasures to Contamination Events by Genetic
Algorithms

submitted to the RCRA 2012 AI-Com special issue.

Comments by referees are attached below. 
Reviewers agree that the idea behind your paper is good and may be
accepted for publication. 
Also, they agree that additional work has been done w.r.t. the
workshop version of this paper.

However, reviewers claim that the paper cannot be published as is, but
it needs a second round of reviews.
Hence, the final judgment is "Consider publication after resubmission
and a second round of reviews".


Now, what you are requested to do is:

1. Produce a new version of the paper taking into consideration
reviewers comments as much as possible. 
The paper must be written in Latex, using the AI-Com style.
Although there are no absolute page restrictions, we expect papers to
be around 20-25 pages 
long, with high-quality per page (i.e., do your best to be concise).


2. Produce a letter --that will be sent to all reviewers-- where you
describe (in a detailed way) how you 
dealt with their comments and criticisms.


3. Upload your paper and accompanying letter into the MSTracker system
using your access credentials.


The deadline for this is in **6 weeks**.

Please, also consider that, by our time plan, no further major
revision stages are scheduled. We will ask reviewers to take a final
decision (accept/reject) about your paper within a few weeks after the
deadline. 


We sincerely hope to have your paper included in the special issue.

Sincerely

Toni Mancini and Angelo Oddi
RCRA 2012 Workshop chairs

REVIEWER 1

====== COMMENTS TO AUTHORS =========================

CONTENT
Please, answer Yes or No.

Is the paper technically sound? Yes
Is the work described original? Yes
Does it place new results in appropriate context with earlier work?
Yes
Does anything need to be added or deleted? Yes
Is the result important enough to warrant publication? Yes
Are the results properly supported by experiments? No
Is the experimental analysis significant and correct? No


FORM
Please, answer Yes or No.

Does the abstract adequately reflect the contents? Yes
Are the summary and conclusions adequate? Yes
Does it contain adequate references to previous work? Yes
Does it explain clearly what was done that is new? Yes
Does it clearly indicate why this work is important? Yes
Is the English satisfactory? Yes
Is the presentation otherwise satisfactory? Yes
Are there an appropriate number of figures? Yes
Do the figures help clarify the concepts in the paper? Yes


YOUR CONFIDENCE in the paper's topics:
(Please, delete all categories except one)

- Good

-------------------------------------------
Detailed comments to authors:


The article addresses a very original problem consisting in scheduling
the activation of devices on the water distribution networks in order
to minimize the impact of some contamination event. If the decision
problem in itself is well-known (it is a multiple TSP), the objective
function used in the present problem (minimize the consumed
contaminated water volume) is very complex to model and can only be
estimated by running an expensive simulation. 

The description of the problem and its context is clear. 

I think a number of aspects should be clarified and improved in the
paper:

- Some details are missing in the description of the proposed
approach, in particular for the case of the encodings based on
activation times (the main technique introduced in the paper), it is
never clearly said how the initial population is computed. One can
guess that it is based on a random sampling of the possible activation
times followed by a feasibility restoration (FRP procedure) of each
individual but it is not explicitly said. Furthermore, in the context
of an encoding based on activation times, it seems that there should
be a notion of parameter representing the "horizon" of the schedule,
all activation times being constrained to be smaller than this
horizon. I suppose the selection of a value for this horizon has an
impact on the performances of the approach. Something should be said
about it.

- It is mentioned on several occasions in the paper that the proposed
approach performs better than usual "commonsense inspired criteria".
It would be useful to provided some evidence of that in the
experimental section. 

- The discussion about the pro and cons of using a high-performance
MILP solver (p16) is weird. The bottom line is that if the MILP solver
is too good and always finds the optimal solution, this can damage the
diversity of the approach and thus, it is better to stop the search
earlier by using an optimality tolerance as it will provide some kind
of random effect on the generated individuals. I think that if this
explanation is right, then it would be better to make this randomness
effect explicit in order to better control it. For instance, you could
randomly not consider some coordinate(s) j in the objective function
that measures the distance to the parents.

- The justification for the use of a GA approach for the problem is
that it can explore wide parts of the search space with a limited
number of solution evaluations which indeed makes sense in the context
of the application. A GA will be efficient if, within the limited
number of solution evaluations, it is able to capture some building
blocks of the problem. The experimental evaluation does not give
enough evidence that the GA is able to find those building blocks. In
particular, the GAs should be compared with a simple random sampling
of the solution space. If there is a limit of 500 evaluations, why not
just randomly draw 500 random solutions in the solution space (for
instance 500 random vectors of activation times made feasible using
FRP) and evaluate them. Are the GA variants significantly better than
random sampling? A related question is the population size (question
is related because random sampling is more or less equivalent to a
population size of 500 for which no GA operators are applied). It is
said on p15 that the initial population size of 20 was selected based
on the only 2C^CS encoding. Usually the best population size highly
depend on the encoding, so the best population size for the H
encodings may be quite different. Did you make some experiments
varying the population size for activation times encodings? By the
way, for 2C^CS, the efficiency seems to systematically increase when
decreasing the population size on [20,100]. Did you try values smaller
than 20? 

I think the paper should be revised to address the 4 points above.

Some typos:
- p13: The equation (16) does not need to be numbered (not referenced)
and there is a dot before the number
- In the experimental section, there are many occurrences of
"analisys" instead of "analysis".
- p 18, col2: variable speed configuration

-------------------------------------------
Together with the paper, you received its workshop reviews as well as
a
letter from the authors explaining how they have dealt with these
reviews in the current version.

If you already reviewed this paper at the workshop: did authors
properly take into account your previous comments?
(Please, delete all categories except one)

- There are still some important points that have not been addressed,
  neither in the paper nor in the accompanying letter.


Did authors properly take into account the comments of the reviewers
(other than you)?
(Please, delete all categories except one)

- There are still some important points that have not been addressed,
  neither in the paper nor in the accompanying letter.


If you are not fully satisfied about how authors addressed reviewers'
comments, please explain why:

I think that some effort should still be made to better justify the
proposed approach. The experimental section, although it has been
extended, does not make it clear if and why the proposed GA is better
than other (possibly simpler) approaches such as a pure random
sampling. By the way, I did not find the letter explaining how the
reviewers comments were taken into account.

REVIEWER 2

This paper proposes three genetic algorithms (GA) for an
optimization-simulation problem (i.e. an optimization problem for
which the objective function is obtained through simulation) arising
from a countermeasure scheduling problem in the context of a water
distribution network contamination disaster.

We note that this paper is an extended version of a paper presented in
an LNCS issue on Evolutionary Computation (proceedings of EvoCOP
2012.), mainly including additional experiments and discussions.

In Section 2, The need for using metaheuristics and evolutionary
algorithms is well-justified by the absence of lower bounds, poor
quality of existing feasible solutions (upper bounds), and absence of
cost-relevant neighborhood structure for local  search.

Section 3 details the relevant literature, and, in particular,
discusses the related multiple traveling salesman problems and
parallel machine problems and the commonly encountered encodings of
these problems in GA.

Section 4 provides a high level description of the GA/Simulation
 framework for the considered problem.

In Sections 5,6,7 the proposed GA  are detailed in terms of encoding
scheme, crossover, mutation, symmetry considerations and inclusion of
variable speed characteristics.  

Sections 5 and 6 consider sequence-based encodings that work only on
feasible solutions but include, as a counterpart, a lot of redundancy.


Section 7 presents a direct start time vector encoding which by
definition is redundancy-free but may represent infeasible solutions.
The authors propose a mixed integer linear programming model to
restore feasibility from an infeasible vector by computing its closest
feasible vector according to the L1 norm. The problem is shown NP-hard
by equivalence to a parallel machine problem with earliness and
tardiness penalties (as the infeasible vector may be described as due
dates for the new vector). A binary crossover is defined, possibly
issuing an infeasible vector and repairing it with the above-defined
MILP. A MILP-based crossover is also proposed using the principle of
generating a solution close to the hyper-parallelepiped defined by the
two parent vectors. 

Section 8 presents highly detailed analysis of the experimental
results. Among others, there is an interesting discussion on how
allowing suboptimality in the MILP solver may produce more diversified
results for the MILP-based crossover.
A statistical analysis confirms that the MILP based GA outperforms the
sequence-based GAs. This is also due to the fact that thigh CPU times
are anyway required by the simulation part, which makes it worth
spending a little more time in MILP solving.

To summarize, this paper presents an efficient genetic algorithm
hybridized with MILP solving and simulation to solve a practical
scheduling problem in the context of water contamination disaster. I
appreciated that the use of the proposed method is particularly
well-justified which is not always the case when GA come into play. I
would suggest to reduce the experimental result section and especially
the statistical analysis part. No such developments are needed to
reach the conclusion. Subject to this minor remark, I suggest to
accept this paper.

Detailed remarks : 


Sentences should not start with a numbered reference e.g. P.6 C1 a
sentence starts
with "[27] tackles the parallel machine […]". Use author names first.


Section 5 and section 6 contain only one subsection.

P12 C2 : verteces --> vertices

P15 C1 "most important, is equal […]" : rephrase sentence