This paper deals with the problem of minimizing the makespan of a
multi-mode RCPSP with a single resource per mode (resource
flexibility) and simple precedence constraints. The contribution of
the paper is a set of heuristics for computing a first solution and an
adaptation a limited-discrepancy search for exploring some relevant
discrepancies of the heuristics.

The description of the adaptation of the LDS should be improved. In
particular, whereas it is clear that discrepancies are applied only on
a subset of the variables (the ones corresponding to tasks that delay
the availability of a resource that would have been the quickest to
perform a given task ti but was not chosen for ti because of this
delay), it is not clear how, and if, the alternative branches
corresponding to other variables are explored. In other words, the
notion of "not applying discrepancy" to a task is not clearly defined.

There are some more minor unprecisions in the paper:
- it is mentioned in the problem statement that tasks are subject to
  release dates and deadlines, this is not consistent with the
  statement in the section "Heuristics for the computation of an
  initial solution" that says that task finish times are not
  constrained.
- in this very same section on the heuristics, it is not true that
  even in the absence of deadline, the described process will always
  produce a solution. It works only if the tasks priorities correspond
  to a topological sort of the initial precedence graph, this should
  be clearly said.
- in the definition of the tail q_i, I think something like q_i=0 if
  Succ_i={} should be added, otherwise, q_i is ill-defined
- in the section "Resource ordering heuristics", the notion of "less
  required resource" is not formally defined
- in the experiments, R_max is defined as the maximal number of
  resource alternative per tasks. Does it mean that all tasks have
  exactly R_max alternatives and if not, how and how many
  alternatives are defined given the parameter R_max. Similar question
  with P_max, which, by the way, does not seem to be a parameter of
  the instances.

There are two issues with respect to the experiments. The first one is
that it is very hard to have an idea of how the proposed approach
compares with other approaches that solves the same or more complex
MRCPSP problems. A comparative study would be very informative. The
second one is that I do not understand why the experimental study was
not performed on bigger problems given that the CPU time for the small
problem considered in the paper (81 activities for the buggest
problems) is very small (less than 50ms). Furthermore, the
quasi-linear CPU time on figure 10 whereas the number of tasks on the
x-axis increases in n^2 seems to suggest a complexity in O(sqrt(n))
whereas I cannot imagine how it can get better than O(n) as there is
at least n search nodes for computing the first solution !




The paper is about minimizing the makespan of a multi-mode RCPSP with
a single resource per mode and simple precedence constraints. It
proposes some heuristics used in conjunction with an adaptation of a
LDS approach. Although such kind of adaptation of the LDS is of clear
interest, the description of the approach suffers several unprecisions
and the experimental study is really not convincing.
