
PaperId: 109
Title: Bounding the Resource Availability of Partially Ordered Events with Constant Resource Impact
Author: Jeremy Frank
PC member: Peter Stuckey
Reviewer: Philippe Laborie

----------------------------- SCORES -----------------------------------
(rank each of the following as either Little or Much

Originality (Little/Much):	      4
Significance (Little/Much):	      4
Technical Quality (Little/Much):      5
Clarity (Little/Much):		      4
Related Work (Little/Much):	      4

(rank this from 1 - 6: low scores represent a negative evaluation, and high 
scores  represent a positive evaluation)

Overall Ranking (1-6): 4

Best paper nomination (Yes/No):	No

----------------------------- -----------------------------------
Detailed Comments

This paper first illustrates on some examples that the two existing
techniques for bounding resource availability (balance constraint and
resource envelopes) do not dominate each other. Then, an extension of
those techniques is proposed that dominates both the balance
constraint and resource envelopes. This extension consists in applying
flow techniques to compute tighter (and locally achievable) bounds on
the balance constraint. Although the new algorithm is computationally
expensive, the end of the paper outlines some directions for improving
its complexity.

In the introduction, it should be mentioned that the RTN formalism is
more expressive than what is studied in the present paper. In
particular it allows for (1) absolute changes on resources (so, not
only production and consumption) and (2) conditions holding between
time-points (and not only piecewise constant resource bounds). Using
the notation of [Laborie 03], the present paper covers the fragment
(R,LQ|STN) of the RTN formalism.

The description of the NTC in section 2 is misleading. It reads that
"checking the NTC" means checking "whether there exists a feasible
solution of the STN that also satisfies the resource
constraints". This is rather a description of the feasibility problem,
which is much harder than checking the NTC (ALL feasible solutions of
the STN also satisfy the resource constraints). The definition of when
the NTC is proved satisfied/unsatisfied should also be improved.

The examples of non-domination illustrate that:
1. envelopes can be better that balance constraint for proving the NTC
   is satisfied
2. balance constraint can be better than envelopes for proving that
   NTC is unsatisfied (that there is no solution)
An interesting question would be whether non-domination also holds the
other way round. Are there examples where:
1. envelopes are better than balance constraint for proving the NTC is
   unsatisfied
2. balance constraint is better than envelopes for proving that NTC is
   satisfied

In section 2.1, it is stated that the computational complexity of BC
is dominated by the maintenance of arc-consistency of the STN. That is
certainly true in the worst case as maintenance is in O(n.m), thus
O(n3) on dense graphs whereas balance constraint is in O(n2). But I
would say that in practice, the worst case of maintenance is very
seldom reached whereas the O(n2) complexity of a naive implementation
of the balance constraint is almost systematical. So in practice, the
cost of the balance constraint often dominates the cost of maintaining
the STN.

Besides computing a NTC, the main interest of the balance constraint
is to perform constraint propagation (domain restriction on the domain
of time-variables, deduction of new precedence constraints). A very
interesting direction for future work would be to adapt the flow
algorithm described in the paper to perform constraint
propagation. Were any steps made in this direction?


Some typos:

end of p3: topoplogically
p8: Then we would like A to domiante
last page: to many closing parenthesis: UA(R)) UB(R))


----------------------------- -----------------------------------
Confidential Comments for Committee

