Title: Earliest-completion scheduling of contract algorithms with end guarantees

Review
Relevance [1-10] 8
Is the paper fully within the scope of the conference? Will the questions and results of the paper be of interest to researchers in the field?

Significance [1-10] 6
Is this a significant advance in the state of the art? Is this a paper that people are likely to read and cite? Does the paper address an important problem? Does it open new research directions? Is it a paper that is likely to have a lasting impact?

Originality [1-10] 7
Reviewers should recognise and reward papers that propose genuinely new ideas. As a reviewer you should try to assess whether the ideas are truly new. Novel combinations, adaptations or extensions of existing ideas are also valuable.

Technical Quality [1-10] 6
Are the results technically sound? Are there obvious flaws in the conceptual approach? Are claims well-supported by theoretical analysis or experimental results? Are the experiments well thought out and convincing? Will it be possible for other researchers to replicate these results? Is the evaluation appropriate? Did the authors clearly assess both the strengths and weaknesses of their approach?

Clarity and quality of writing [1-10] 5
Is the paper clearly written? Is there a good use of examples and figures? Is it well organized? Are there problems with style and grammar? Are there issues with typos, formatting, references, etc.? It may be better to advise the authors to revise a paper and submit to a later conference, than to accept and publish a poorly-written version. However, if the paper is likely to be accepted, please make suggestions to improve the clarity of the paper, and provide details of typos.

Scholarship [1-10] 7
Does the paper situate the work with respect to the state of the art? Are relevant papers cited, discussed, and compared to the presented work?

Overall Score [1-10] 6
10- This is best-paper material. 
9- An excellent paper, a very strong accept. 
8-A very good paper, a strong accept 
7-A good paper, accept. 
6-A good paper overall. I vote for acceptance, although would not be upset if it were rejected because of the low acceptance rate. 
5-Decent paper, but may be below the IJCAI threshold. I tend to vote for rejecting it, although would not be upset if it were accepted. 
4-I vote for rejecting it, but could be persuaded otherwise. 
3-A weak paper, just not good enough. 
2-A clear rejection. I vote and argue for rejection. Clearly below the standards of the conference. 
1-A very strong rejection. I will actively fight for rejection.

Confidence on your assessment [1-10] 5
10-My own current research is on the topic of the paper, 
9-I have undertaken research on the topic of the paper, 
8-I am an expert in this area, 
7-I have up-to-date knowledge in the area, 
6-I don't have complete knowledge of the area, but can assess the value of the work, 
5-I have a general understanding of the area, 
4-My assessment is an informed guess, 
3-My knowledge in the area is limited, 
2-My knowledge in the area is very limited, 
1-My assessment can be wrong

Comments to Authors.
Make sure you substantiate all the scores for the different criteria above. Give informative content. Be constructive. Write your comments in the same way you would like to receive comments on your own papers.

The article extends the state of the art in the domain of the scheduling of contract algorithms for multiple problem instances on a single processor by considering performance guarantees at the end time of the algorithms. More precisely, it looks a schedule that (1) guarantees all the problems are solved by a contract algorithm for a minimal duration L, (2) is optimal in terms of acceleration ratio and (3) minimizes the completion time.

The problem is well formalized and the approach is reasonably easy to understand, even for a reader like me who is not from the area of contract algorithms. A theorem shows that there exist an optimal schedule in the sense of points (1,2,3) above that is both monotone and cyclic. These properties permit to formulate the scheduling problem as an integer linear program. Properties of this formulation are used to provide an analytic solution to the problem. 

Though the paper is mostly a theoretical paper, an experimental study is performed showing the practical interest of the approach. The experiments illustrate the gain obtained by minimizing the completion time compared to other optimal schedules in terms of acceleration ratio that do not consider the completion time minimization. 

Overall, I find it is a very interesting paper that provides an analytical optimal solution to a complex and relevant problem. 

A few detailed comments:

p3, col1: In the very end of section 2, when defining the problem, I would add that you want to "Find a schedule X* [feasible for L] such that ..."

p3, col2: In the proof of Theorem 4, it is not very clear why X' is cyclic. As X' is only defined by the durations x_\pi(i) and not the problems, the cyclicity is not evident. From my understanding, you do not only reorder the durations (thanks to permutation \pi) but you also re-affect the problems in a cyclic way. It would be clearer to make this allocation explicit.

p4, col1: in the LP formulation (by the way, I would rather call it an ILP because it is integer and not continuous), constraint Ci and the link with Equation (2) would I think deserve a more detailed description. One guess that the left term sum_j=1^i x_j relates with the T_j(X) term in (2) but it is not completely straightforward.

p4, col2: for clarity, I think it would be better to define the values a_i and b_i in the Lemma 5 or before.


Confidential Comments (Not visible to the authors)


I like this paper, even if it requires some effort to read (and I did not check all the results in detail). But I would not blame the authors for the complexity which I think is mostly due to the problem itself. I want to add that I'm not very knowledgeable in the domain of contract algorithm scheduling, so I'm longing to read other reviews by experts in this area.


Metareview

Summary of the strong and weak points of the paper. This text should justify your recommendation to the Area Chair about acceptance or rejection of the paper but do not mention anything about acceptance or rejection in the metareview as this text will be read by authors and the final decision on acceptance and rejection will be taken later in the process. Explain the impact of the rebuttal and the discussions and preserve the anonymity of the process.

Recommendation
Suggest Accept, Borderline or Reject to the Area Chair. 
You may select Undecided if the discussion is still going on, and Special Case if this is a special case that needs attention of the area chair, such as an inconclusive discussion.