1. confidential comments to the editor
--------------------------------------

2. overall evaluation of the paper
--------------------------------------

Accept.

This new version of the article takes into account the most important
comments on the earlier version. 

In particular, the fact the schedule builder is fixed and considered
as a part of the problem description is made clear. The hypotheses
that are studied in section 6 are more clear and they are used in
section 7 to justify the introduction of a new algorithm that
outperforms the initial ones.

A good point also is that some of the problem instances have been made
public.


3. comments to the authors. 
--------------------------------------

The comments below are incremental with respect to initial review #3.

The description of the strategy used for the schedule builder in
section 4 (Solution representation) is slightly ambiguous. It reads
that "the schedule builder considers task requests in the order that
they appear in \pi. Each task request is assigned to the first
available resource (as sequenced by the list of resource and window
pairs provided in the task description) and at the earliest possible
starting time." The notion of "first available" resource could be
understood either as the first resource in the sequence provided in
the task description that is such that the request can be scheduled on
it, no matter at which date the request is scheduled (thus, first in
the sequence) or as the resource in the sequence that can accommodate a
scheduling of the request as soon as possible (thus, first in time).

Each individual technique is presented in section 4 with a particular
choice of values for its parameters (Genitor ratio of selected
positions, distances to move forward in SWO, bias function for
HBSS). The justification for these values is in general that you tried
several values and selected the best ones. It would be nice to have an
idea of the sensitivity of these techniques to the actual parameter
values.  This is done for the Genitor ratio of selected positions in
section 6.5.1.

In order to make the article more self-containing, a few words should
be said about the polynomial activity-selector algorithm used to
schedule low altitude requests on multiple resources. 

You advocate that long leaps in the search space are a key factor to
improve the convergence toward good solutions. And indeed, allowing
RLS to make longer leaps (ALLS) improves the results. But still,
looking at the convergence curves on page 15, one have the feeling
that RLS (moves of length 1) converges quicker than Genitor (which
perform long leaps) at least, in the beginning of the search.

In section 6.5.1, I would have used, for k, a ratio of the total
number of requests instead of a constant number of request to define
the Genitor-k algorithm, this would provide a more
instance-independent parameter and avoid the discussion on the
compatibilities between k and the number of requests.

Same thing with the SWO with a limited number of requests to move
forward (ratio of the number of requests involved in conflicts rather
than of constant number).

