Hello,
I do no see why the proposed O(n+m) algorithm does not achieve bound consistency (in case processing times are fixed as specified in Theorem 1). Indeed the support smin they compute for the minimal start time of each task T is feasible (there exists an interval I and a relation r such that T r I if T is scheduled to start at smin. So I do not see why this value for the task support would be removed by the propagation of the upper bounds. I may be missing something of course, a counter example would help. I'm even pretty sure that one could ensure an O(n+m) algorithm to achieve bound consistency even in the case of variable processing time. For a given task T (assuming a fixed processing time), for a given relation r and a given  interval I_i, if TrI_i is satisfiable, there is a unique minimal start time for the task T such that TrI_i (support) and it is clear that the support for the next interval I_i+1 is larger than the support for I, this explains why the intervals I can be scanned from left to right without risk of missing any support. And it also explains that one can scan the list of tasks T from left to right, using this to also propagate the precedence relations between tasks. In the end, what they show is that one can just iterate over the two lists in parallel, in O(n+m) which is quite intuitive given the considered constraints I find. Then thanks to the notion of reversible supports they describe in section 3.4 they can avoid re-iterating over the complete lists at each search node and I suppose they can get a complexity of O(n+m) from the root node to a leaf node, so I would rather expect an amortized complexity in O(1+m/n) at each search node, so O(1) if m is of the same order as n. 
Otherwise, I agree on the remarks concerning the possible lack of genericity of the constraint and the mention of the  satellite communication scheduling problem in the conclusion is not really convincing. Still, an interest of this type of constraint is to extend the use of CP in temporal reasoning problems that are outside of the classical "scheduling" topic and I think this should be encouraged.