Relevance:	 	 	7	 	 	 	 	 	 	
Significance 			6		
Technical soundness 		7								
Novelty 			6							
Quality of Evaluation 		6								
Clarity 			6							
OVERALL 			6/7							
CONFIDENCE			8	


RELEVANCE:

The paper is relevant both for people working in the CSP community and
for people working in temporal reasoning and scheduling.

SIGNIFICANCE:

The paper presents an interesting presolving technique for HSPs that
consists in reformulating the constraints so that constraint
propagation at solving time will be stronger. This general idea is not
new but as far as I know, its application to HSPs is original.

My main concern is that the approach is applied on a type of
finite-domain constraints that is not very expressive (typically,
constraints of the form: x==a where a is a constant or x in A where A
is a subset of the variable domain). The efficiency of the approach
seems to rely on the fact that disjunctions of such constraints can be
easily checked during the search as the presolve adds new elements to
the disjunctions of finite-domain constraints of the original
problem. It would be interesting to evaluate the approach on more
complex n-ary constraints. My feeling is that in this case, the
approach would be less efficient because the larger disjunctions
would slow down the propagation but would not result in a much
stronger propagation as the disjunction would be rather weak.

A second, and somehow symmetrical, limitation is the fact the approach
seems to consider only disjuncts of temporal constraints that rely on
the same pair of temporal variables. In this case, the subsumption
relation between such disjuncts is indeed quite easy to check but in the
general case this is NP-complete. 

Anyway, this work, even if it focuses on a particular fragment of the
HSP formalism is an interesting direction and I think it should be
encouraged. 

TECHNICAL SOUNDNESS:

The paper seems to be technically sound.

NOVELTY:

To the best of my knowledge the approach seems to be original and it
is carefully compared with existing state of the art, in particular
DTP_FD. 

QUALITY OF EVALUATION:

The experimental part clearly shows the interest of the approach on
HSPs involving disjunctions of unary finite-domain constraints and
disjuncts of temporal constraints that rely on the same pair of
temporal variables. This is less evident for more general HSPs.

Note that given the huge speed-up on the random instances when using
the proposed approach, it would be more interesting to give the
improvement values in term of ratio rather than percentage of
improvement (saying it runs 42 times quicker is more informative than
saying the time improvement is 97.60%).

It would have been interesting to experimentally compare the presented
approach with DTP_FD.

CLARITY:

The paper is clearly written and well organized.

REBUTTAL QUESTIONS:

1. If we restrict to problems that can be expressed and solved by
DTP_FD, is it the case that using the constraint tightening approach
described in the paper results in exactly the same propagation as the
approach proposed in DTP_FD ? This seems to be assumed in the
paragraph about DTP_FD in section "Analysis of the HCT Algorithm" but
it does not seem evident and no proof is mentioned.

Main reasons for your recommendation:

The approach is original. In the current state, it is not a real
breakthrough in the domain but it is an interesting starting point.

