Title: TEMPLE - A Modeling Language for Resource Planning and Scheduling Problems
Authors: Andreas Beer, Johannes Gartner, Nysret Musliu, and Werner Schafhauser

Evaluation

Overall evaluation
2 reject

Reviewer's confidence
3 high

Additional scores

 Significance 
2 (poor)

 Novelty 
2 (poor)

 Technical Quality 
3 (fair)

 Presentation 
2 (poor)

 Relevance 
4 (Highly Relevant)


And the review "box"

--- Lines starting with -- will be preserved in the final review

--- Important point about APPLICATION TRACK papers
--- Please review novelty and significance of the paper as an application. I.e.
--- it need not have novel research in it if it is a novel application of constraints. 
--- Similarly it may be a significant as an application without being significant new research.
--- If in doubt if a paper is application track, check with your PC member or
--- the programme chair. 


-- CP 2009 Review Form 

-- Please comment on each of the folllowing to justify your numeric scores
-- Please insert text in each section
-- However negative you are, remember how you feel when reading negative reviews! 

-- JUSTIFICATION OF OVERALL ASSESSMENT
-- What is the main reason this paper should be accepted?
-- What is the main reason this paper should be rejected? 
-- You can give both reasons if it has good and bad points

This paper decribes TEMPLE, a modeling language for resource planning
and scheduling problems. 

From one hand, in the paper the authors seem to use "resource planning
and scheduling problems" in quite a restrictive sense (designing shift
plans for human resources) that corresponds to what is more commonly
called employee or labor scheduling and insist on the fact the TEMPLE
language is a "domain specific" language. From the other hand, all the
concepts introduced in the TEMPLE language (for instance "intervals"
or "curves") are very general and without any labor scheduling
semantics. The language could be used to model a wide range of
scheduling applications. 

My main concern about this paper is that there is no evidence that the
proposed language is supported by a robust search and it seems that,
besides the problem definition in TEMPLE itself, there is a big effort
for the user to adapt or re-write a search (including finding a first
solution and improving it with meta-heuristics). The paper (a)
describe a very interesting particular labor scheduling problem (Break
Scheduling Problem for Supervision Personnel - BSPSP), (b) gives some
elements about how this problem can be modeled with TEMPLE and (c)
mentions a local search algorithm that seems to be quite efficient to
solve this problem. The BSPSP (or at least a variant of this problem)
has already been described and studied by the authors in some previous
papers, it would be useful to clarify the link between the local
search of the present paper and the one used in [1]. As this approach
was already proved to be efficient for this problem, it is not really
surprising that it also works well for a re-formulation of this
problem with TEMPLE. A stronger contribution would be to show that
other employee scheduling problems can be modeled with TEMPLE and
efficiently solved with the proposed approach without significant
implementation effort. 

[1] Beer, Gartner, Musliu, Schafhauser and Slany. Scheduling Breaks in
Shift Plans for Call Centers. PATAT'08 Proceedings of the 7th
International Conference on the Practice and Theory of Automated
Timetabling.

Furthermore, the authors mention that the effort for deriving the
TEMPLE model was significantly smaller than the one for obtaining the
problem model described in the IEEE Intelligent Systems paper. I'm not
sure this comparison is very fair given that it seems the same people
were involved in these two models so it is not surprising that,
independently from the modeling language that is used, the second
model will benefit from the experience of the first one (usually, when
modeling a problem, a large amount of the time is spent in the
understanding of the problem itself which in this case was probably
done for the first model). This issue should be clarified.
Unfortunately, the IEEE Intelligent Systems paper is still not
accessible.

-- SIGNIFICANCE
-- How important do you think the paper will be?
-- For application track papers please judge significance as an application.
-- Reviewers MUST assess all forms of paper equally: 
--    E.g. a paper of major theoretical impact has major significance
--   just as a paper of major practical impact has major significance
-- Reviewer Comments:

I think the paper significance is weak because in spite of its
apparent generality, there is no evidence the TEMPLE language is
robustly supported by the proposed search algorithm.


-- NOVELTY
-- How different  is this work from previous papers? 
-- For application track papers please judge novelty as an application.
-- Is there related work the authors have not cited? 
-- You MUST ignore previous versions by the same authors of non-conference quality
-- i.e. previous publication in workshops, etc are not regarded as prior publication
-- Reviewer Comments:


The local search algorithm of the present paper seems to be very
similar to the one of the PATAT'08 paper on the same type of problem
(see [1] above). The link between the two should be clarified. This
weaken the contribution related with the hill-climbing approach.

The section on related modeling languages is clearly missing a
comparison with the modeling language of IBM ILOG CP Optimizer (see
[2,3]) that uses very similar concepts (interval variables with boolean
status (active/inactive), cumul functions, etc.).

[2] Laborie, P., Rogerie, J.: Reasoning with Conditional
Time-intervals. In: Proc. 21th International FLAIRS Conference (FLAIRS
2008). p555-560.

[3] Laborie, P., Rogerie, J., Shaw, P., Vilim, P.: Reasoning with
Conditional Time- intervals, Part II: an Algebraical Model for
Resources. In: Proc. 22th International FLAIRS Conference (FLAIRS
2009). 



-- TECHNICAL QUALITY
-- Are there mistakes in the paper?
-- Are there important details missing, e.g. experiments or proofs?
-- Reviewer Comments:

In the language description, the semantics of the "relations" (<->) is
not clear. The notation <-> seem to suggest those relations are
symmetrical whereas the example of relation between Shift and Break
(isContained/contains) is not.

In the comparison of the number of lines for the two approaches (with
and without TEMPLE), it is mentioned that the model wih the
min-conflict based LS comprised 6014 lines of code. Is it including
the LS algorithm itself? This comparison is not clear. If one only
reason on the BSPSP problem, one should also take into account the
code of the hill-climbing local search in the size of the code for the
approach with TEMPLE. If one see TEMPLE as a more general model for
labor scheduling, one should show that the hill-climbing local search
is robust enough to handle other types of labor scheduling problems.

The fact the instances are publically available is clearly a good
point. I tried to download them and noticed that the format is not
clearly specified (different parts of the files, meaning of the lines
and columns for each part). Without that, it takes some time to figure
out what all these different pieces of data mean.

-- PRESENTATION 
-- Is the paper well written? 
-- Is it of the appropriate length for the technical content?
-- Reviewer Comments:


A very important part of the TEMPLE model for the BSPSP is missing, it
is the one about the different constraints on break position (and
break existence). It would be very interesting to have an idea how the
activity/inativity of the intervals representing breaks is used in this
part of the model. Generally speaking, if the model cannot be
exhaustively described in the paper, it would be good to provide a
link to a technical report or a web page with the complete model.

The section on related modeling languages is not really
informative. It only lists a set of scheduling sytems and languages,
there is no comparison with TEMPLE.

-- RELEVANCE 
-- Is the paper relevant to CP?
-- NOTE: Papers should be assumed relevant unless proven otherwise
-- E.g. papers on SAT/OR/Planning/etc should be assumed relevant
-- Reviewer Comments:

The topic of the paper is clearly relevant for CP as it deals with a
scheduling problem solved using a constraint-base local search
approach.

-- OTHER COMMENTS
-- Comments to help authors improve the paper whether accepted or not
-- Any comments which do not fit elsewhere in the review.
-- Reviewer Comments:

Some more detailed comments:

p2: "Due to their complex ... for resource and scheduling problems":
the sentence has no verb.

p2: "the the algorithm's source code"

p5: The example used for curves assumes that there are no breaks so
that the WorkingEmployees curve is incremented during the whole shift
periods. This is not very consistent with the Break Scheduling problem
described in section 3. Of course, it does not necessarily have to but
this may be a source of misunderstanding.

p6: In constraint H4: "(min. ts count)". What's that?

p6: The description of the objective function reads: 2.S1+10.S2. If
one looks at the benchmarks publically available, it seems that the
actual cost funtion is 10*S1+2*S2 which makes more sense as employee
shortage is more critical than excess.

p12: "the instantiating all created classes"

p13: "excess of employees cannot be avoided..." repeated twice in the
end of the page.

p15: "heurstic"

