Please see below the answers provided by the authors(s) for the JAIR questionnaire required for all submissions:

List up to four keywords/key phrases from your paper from the following list:

probabilistic reasoning; scheduling; uncertainty

Please state in no more than 150 words why your work is important to other researchers in Artificial Intelligence and how they could make use of your results.

Dynamic scheduling requires a series of scheduling and resource allocation decisions to be made online before future tasks have arrived and, indeed, before the characteristics of future tasks are known. This is the challenge of sequential decision making under uncertainty, a problem that has received a significant amount of attention in AI over the past few years. To address this challenge, we investigate the integration of queueing theory and scheduling. Queueing theory is an approach to sequential decision making under uncertainty, one that emphasizes time and resources and one that, to our knowledge, has not been considered for solving problems studied in AI. As the richness of decision making problems in AI extends to questions of time and resources, we propose to incorporate queueing theory into the toolbox of AI techniques and show that the hybridization of queueing and scheduling is a promising direction for fundamental and applied research. 

Please list 1 - 3 papers previously published in JAIR that are closest to your work, and explain in no more than 150 words how your work differs from those papers.

To our knowledge, there are no papers published in JAIR that investigate the integration of queueing theory and scheduling for solving dynamic scheduling problems. However, the paper “A Constraint Programming Approach for Solving a Queueing Control Problem” (Terekhov and Beck, 2008) uses constraint programming to solve a queueing control problem, being an initial step toward the extension of constraint programming to reason better about uncertainty. Additionally, there are numerous JAIR papers dealing with decision making under uncertainty, including “COLIN: Planning with continuous linear numeric change” (Coles et al., 2012) and “Planning with noisy probabilistic relational rules.” (Lang and Toussaint, 2010). However, these papers do not use queueing theory.

If any part of this paper has been previously published, please state where and explain how the current paper differs.

Section 3 of the paper is based on previously published workshop and conference papers (Terekhov, Tran, & Beck, 2010; Terekhov, Tran, Down, & Beck, 2012). The work in Section 4 forms part of a Master's thesis (Tran, 2011) but has not appeared in any peer-reviewed publication. (Please see paper for full bibliographic information of these papers.)

---------------------------------------------------- 

Notes: 

