Recommendation
	
        Accept
	Minor Revision
        Major Revision
        * Reject
 

Comments

Confidential Comments to the Associate Editor

I tend to reject this article because there is nothing really new
here, except the mix of a large number of well known techniques. That
could b eok if, in the end, the results were impressive but
unfortunately, this is not the case. Most of the instances the authors
claim to close were in fact already closed by some more simple
approaches.

Comments to the Author

The approach combines many well-known techniques (dispatching rules,
randomization, precedence posting search, textures measurements,
restarts, no-goods, classical constraint propagation on disjunctive
resources, simple symmetry breaking, etc.) to provide reasonably good
results on some classical open-shop problems.

The main issue with the paper is that, in the end, the approach is
quite complex and the introduction of all those ingredients is not
always well motivated. For instance, it is clear that the efficiency
of a single tree search will heavily depend on the existence of a good
upper bound but as the proposed approach is using restarts, the
interest of the first phase (heuristics) is not clear at all.

Furthermore, because of this complexity related with the number of
ingredients in the approach, it requires tuning many parameters. In
the experimental study, a big amount of effort is done for tuning
those parameters on the benchmark set, some parameters values being
even dependent on problem characteristics (such as the problem
size). In the end, it is not very surprising that, with such a
fine-grain tuning the approach behaves well on the benchmark.

Some references and results are missing. For instance, all the
Gueret&Prins instances and some of the Brucker instances mentioned as
"closed" by RRCP-OSP have in fact already been closed in a few seconds
CPU time in [1].

I think some statements in the paper are not correct. In particular,
in section 3.4, it is mentioned that the setTimes branching scheme is
incomplete. That is true in general but, in the context of open-shop
problems, this scheme is complete and, unlike stated, it is a scheme
that scales well with problem size as it avoids the quadratic number
of potential decisions of precedence posting.

[1] P. Laborie. Complete MCS-Based Search: Application to Resource
Constrained Project Scheduling. In Proceedings IJCAI-05, July 2005.

