COMMENTS FOR THE AUTHORS:
- Problem addressed: Does the paper clearly state the problem
addressed by the work?  Does the paper make a convincing case for the
significance of the problem?  Is the problem addressed directly
relevant to the conference?

The paper presents a constraint propagation algorithm based on precedence graph to propagate constraints of type "on a disjunctive resource, activity A cannot be executed directly after activity B in the sequence of activities". Those constraints are useful for instance when the transitions between activities on the resource must follow a state diagram. The problem is clearly relevant to the conference.

Strangely, the state diagram is not really exploited in the paper. It seems only to be used locally, to remove some "CanBeRightAfter/Before" nodes but there is not a more global exploitation of the transition diagram (trivial example: an automaton that loops between 2 states S1 and S2, the propagation can detect a failure as soon as the set of activities that can be after a given activity A has more activities of type S1 than of type S2). In the paper, the proposed propagation algorithms do not exploit the transition automaton more than traditional techniques for handling setup costs as an infeasible transition can be modelled with an infinite setup cost. 

If the constraint is open, it is true that the propagation above can't be performed 
but one can still do a lot to propagate more if
one knows the rules that governs the insertion of new activities in
the schedule (which is the case in planning). For instance, if state A
must be directly followed by state B and then state C and if in the
current schedule, an activity of state A is followed (not directly) by
an activity of type C and no activity of type B currently in the
schedule are possibly between A and C, then, we can infer that an
operator containing an activity of type B must be added between and C.

- Approach: Does the paper present the approach to solve the targeted
problem in sufficient detail?  Is the design or implementation of any
system described in terms of the key ideas of the approach?  Are any
new ideas described in sufficient detail?

The paper provides sufficient details. 

- Validation: Does the paper show convincing evidence to support the
approach?  Do the authors present solid arguments to support their
ideas?

In the section about related work, you mention that qualitative temporal reasoning is appropriate to activity sequencing, which, indeed, makes sense. But in practical applications, many other constraints are present in the problem (e.g. time windows, temporal constraints with min/max delays, etc. For these problems, quantitative temporal reasoning is necessary at some point. How do you think the precedence graph described in this paper could articulate with a quantitative temporal network? Anyway, I understand that this is out of the scope of the paper.

An experimental evaluation of the approach would be very useful to assess the interest of the introduced propagation rules and how they scale with the size of the problem. If no benchmark are currently existing on sequencing problems with transition diagram, it could be a good contribution to create one or adapt existing benchmarks on sequencing problems with setup costs to introduce transition diagrams (e.g. a transition is forbidden as soon as the setup cost is higher than a given threshold).


- Current status: Does the paper clearly state how much work has been
done to date, i.e., what has been designed, what has been implemented,
and what has been evaluated?

The paper clearly explains what was designed and implemented. But one of the weaknesses of the paper clearly is the lack of evaluation of the approach.

- Contribution: Does the paper clearly describe how the work
makes a substantial contribution and demonstrates improvement
over the state of the art?  Do the authors place the research
presented in the context of previous work and cite relevant work
appropriately?

As mentioned by the authors, the approach is very close to the one partially described in (Focacci,Laborie,Nuijten 2000) and slightly more detailed in [1]. There is a direct mapping between the two approaches:
valid/invalid node <-> contributing/non-contributing node
Before/After <-> precedence edge
DirectlyBefore/After <-> prev/next edge

It is to be noted that the approach described in (Focacci,Laborie,Nuijten 2000) also can deals with the kind of state transition diagram described in the paper as it handles setup cost and a forbidden state transitions can be assigned an infinite cost.

It is true that the algorithms for computing the "extended" transitive closure of the precedence graph is not fully detailed in the above papers but the propagation rules are presented. 

The statement in the introduction that traditional global constraints in scheduling do not allow adding new activities during the search should be handled more carefully. Except for a few global constraints, most of them can be implemented in an "open" manner without any problem (time-table, disjunctive, edge-finding, precedence graph). This is mainly an implementation choice for the propagation rules. For instance, all these algorithms are "open" in ILOG Scheduler, that is, new activities can be dynamically inserted during the search.

[1] P. Baptiste, C. Le Pape, W. Nuijten. Constraint-Based Scheduling: Applying Constraint Programming to Scheduling Problems. Kluwer Academic Publishers. 2001.

- Novelty: Does the paper have very preliminary results or ideas that
are so innovative and promising that they should be presented at the
conference?  Does the paper break new ground in bringing in techniques
from outside AI or incorporating AI techniques into a novel area?
Does the paper present promising new ideas for a well-known problem?

The paper introduced a few new ideas. Rules 3/4 are interesting. To the best of my knowledge, I think they are original and were not implemented in (Focacci,Laborie,Nuijten 2000). It would be interesting to analyse the complexity of propagating these rules. An alternative to this propagation could be to wait that there is only one node possibly directly before/after a given node and propagate this "necessarily directly before/after" relation.

- Readability: Is the paper well written and easy to understand? Is the
paper well-organized and easy to follow?

The paper is fairly easy to understand. Maybe too much details are provided into the proofs. 


------------------------------------------------------------------

COMMENTS FOR THE CHAIRS (WILL NOT BE FORWARDED TO AUTHORS):

Recommendation:  (Accept, weak accept, weak reject, reject)

Weak reject

Your expertise: (Researcher in this area, Familiar, Slightly familiar, No
knowledge)

Researcher in this area

Your experience: (PhD student, Recent PhD graduate, PhD more than 4 years ago, Other)

PhD more than 4 years ago

Main reasons for your recommendation:

From one hand, most of the content of the paper is not really original. From the other hand, there is a couple of good ideas for improving the propagation of existing approaches as in rules 3, 4.


Other comments (include strong opinions about acceptance or rejection):


------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------





Confidential comments to PC members
