Evaluation of work and contribution	1-5: 3
Significance				1-5: 4
Originality and novelty 		1-5: 4
Relevance to the call of papers 	1-5: 4
Readability and organization 		1-5: 4
Technical quality 			1-5: 4
Overall recommendation  		1-5: 3
Confidence				1-5: 4

--------------------------------------------------------
Comments to author(s):

The paper proposes a generalisation of STNU that introduces the notion
of observation event (the date of an observation events can be either
controllable or contingent) and allows to shrink the domain of a
link. This extension allows taking into account some situations where
observation can be used to obtain information that reduces the
uncertainty of future events.

It is clearly true that in most of real applications, one has to take
into account that as time passes, some information is usually
available that reduces the uncertainty of future events. Few modelling
frameworks for temporal reasoning can model this phenomenon so the
research direction of the paper should be encouraged.

This being said, I find that in its current state, the content of the
paper is still too light for being presented at IJCAI. Apart for the
extension of the framework and of the related concepts of weak, strong
and dynamic controllability, no results about the additional complexity
of dealing with this extended framework are given and future potential
extensions are only quickly mentioned.

For instance, the extended framework permits to represent a
"controllable" link xi-xj in {dij1,...,dijn} where Nature decides at a
given observation event o which interval dij will be active and the
agent has then full control on which value to chose within this
interval. In many cases, the opposite holds, that is, at a "decision
event" o, the agent needs to decide which interval dij will be active
and once this controllable decision has been taken, it is Nature that
decides of the actual value of the link inside this interval. In the
example of the refrigerator delivery, it could be that ACME calls you
at some time early in the morning to ask you in which time interval
you would like to be delivered (among a set of possible time
intervals) and then, cannot commit to a precise date in this
interval. I don't think this can be represented in the current
extended framework and adding this additional possibility that the
choice of the time interval is controllable or contingent adds an
interesting additional dimension to the framework.

Some more detailed comments:

The example 2 on figure 2 is not consistent with its description in
section 3: in section 3, the length of the link between T_O and R_D is
45 whereas it is 60 on the figure.

In example 3, I don't think that dynamic controllability is
guaranteed. For instance, if the interval becomes [11:00,11:30], as
the slack of 30mn is greater than the slack of 15mn in the controllable
duration of the arc T_C->T_D, it is not possible to choose a date for
T_C that ensures each value in [11:00,11:30] is feasible. To ensure
dynamic controllability, the time windows should be at most 15mn long. 

In the formal description of extended STPU, is it possible that the
intervals of the generalised links overlap? I think it doesn't hurt
but as all the examples use disjoint intervals, maybe it should be
explicitly mentioned. Also, in the formal description, it is not
said what the dij stand for. It seems to be only some identifiers of
the intervals but it is not completely clear.

If find it disturbing to call "controllable" the generalised
requirement links that have several intervals in the disjunction as
the actual interval is chosen by Nature. I would rather call them
"semi-executable" or "semi-controlable" a bit like in DTPU as they mix
a controllable and a contingent part.

In section 6.1, is it true that as soon as a generalised STPU contains
at least one generalised requirement link for which the intersection
of all the intervals is empty, then it cannot be strongly controllable
(this is the case of all the example in the paper)? Indeed, one cannot
chose any value for this requirement link that works for all
observation traces.

Even if these notions have few interest in practise, it would be
interesting to describe at least how weak and strong controllability
can be checked on extended STPU.

In section 7, the most direct parallel between the contingent
disjunctions of intervals in extended STPU and another existing
formalism is certainly with TCSP where the problem is exactly modelled
as xi-xj in I1 U I2 U ... U In but where the disjunction is
controllable. Maybe an easier hybridation than the one between
Generalised STPU and DTPU could be, in a first step, an hybridation
between Generalised STPU and some kind of TCSPU where the choice of
which value to take in an interval is contingent (TCSPU would, of
course be a special case of DTPU).

A few typos:
- On table 1: Generalied (twice)
- section 3, example 2: While obtaining this information earlier has
  no impact [on] the ...

--------------------------------------------------------
Confidential comments to PC members:


--------------------------------------------------------
Summary of review (to author(s) and PC members):

The paper proposes a generalisation of STNU that allows taking into
account some situations where observation can be used to obtain
information that reduces the uncertainty of future events.

Although the research direction followed by the authors should be
encouraged, I think that the current content of the paper is somehow
too light for IJCAI. The contribution could be made more significant
either by extending the proposed framework a step further or by
providing some complexity results about the proposed approach.
