
Evaluation of work and contribution	1-5: 4
Significance				1-5: 4
Originality and novelty 		1-5: 4
Relevance to the call of papers 	1-5: 4
Readability and organization 		1-5: 2
Technical quality 			1-5: 3
Overall recommendation  		1-5: 4
Confidence				1-5: 4

--------------------------------------------------------
Comments to author(s):

The authors present a strongly polynomial algorithm for solving the
STPP problem with piecewise linear convex preference functions. 

To the best of my knowledge this is the first time a strongly
polynomial algorithm is proposed for solving this problem. So the
paper is an important contribution for this type of problem.

The paper has two weaknesses. 

First the readability of the paper could be improved.

The organization of the paper is counter-intuitive. It first recaps
the definition of STPPs, then jump to the definition of MCCPs and its
LP formulation, then show that the dual of the MCCPs model can be
rephrased as a special case of STPPs (with linear costs) and in the
end, describes how to transform an STPP problem with piecewise linear
convex preference functions into a STPP with linear costs. A linear
description of the transformation of the original STPP problem would be
far more easy to follow: (1) show that an STPP problem with piecewise
linear convex preference can be cast into an STPP with linear cost (2)
show that the dual of a STPP with linear cost is an MCCP that is known
to be strongly polynomial.

In section 3.1, the description of the gadget described on Fig 4
should come before the one of Fig 3 because it is the one that
directly maps to the cost function with positive cost described in
section 3. And, in fact the description of the other gadget should
be simplified for clear symmetry reasons instead of the awkward
cut&paste paragraph.

The other weakness is in the claim that a strongly polynomial
algorithm is clearly better than a (not necessarily strongly)
polynomial algorithm. Although there is a clear theoretical interest
in proposing such a strongly polynomial algorithm, it not evident
(unless shown in an experimental study) that in practice it would
outperform an LP solver. For example, for the problem of a PERT
temporal network with earliness/tardiness costs (which is a special
case of STPP problem with piecewise linear convex preference
functions), there exist some strongly polynomial algorithms but in
practice, they do not outperform LP solver implementations.

The space freed by not duplicating the description of each gadget in
section 3.1 could be used to explain more in detail the incremental
algorithm in section 5. Indeed, in the current state, the description
of this algorithm is so sketchy that I would rather leave it for the
description of future work and remove "Incremental" from the paper
title.

Minor comment: please avoid using "seconds" as the unit of time, use
something like "time unit" instead.


--------------------------------------------------------
Confidential comments to PC members:



--------------------------------------------------------
Summary of review (to author(s) and PC members):

The authors present a strongly polynomial algorithm for solving the
STPP problem with piecewise linear convex preference functions. This
is an original contribution.

The organization of the paper should be revised, as well as the claim
that the proposed algorithm outperforms other approaches using an LP
solver until an experimental evaluation has been made.

The description of the incremental algorithm should be improved or the
paper should be less focused on this aspect.

I think the paper is a good candidate for a poster.
