
Evaluation of work and contribution	1-5: 4	 	 	 	 	
Significance				1-5: 4
Originality and novelty 		1-5: 4			
Relevance to the call of papers 	1-5: 4					
Readability and organization 		1-5: 3			
Technical quality 			1-5: 3		
Overall recommendation  		1-5: 4				
Confidence				1-5: 4

--------------------------------------------------------
Comments to author(s):

The article describes:

1. an extension of RCPSP called x-RCPSP that introduces the notions of
optional, substitutable and alternatives activities
2. an evolutionary algorithm for solving x-RCPSP
3. a benchmark for x-RCPSP
4. an experimental study of the proposed algorithm

The x-RCPSP extension is really interesting. This extension already
has been published in recent papers [1,2] but for conferences with a
different audience than IJCAI.

Although the concept of x-RCPSP is easy (activities are associated a
boolean execution status and dependency constraints can be expressed
between activity execution), its formal description in the paper is
quite heavy:

- the notations for activity substitutions and dependency constraints
are heavy and different notations are used in section 2.2 (definition)
and in the example. I think some notation like i => j, is more
intuitive for expressing that activity j has to be activated upon the
activity of i.

- activity substitutions x_{i,j} seems to express the same constraint
as i <=> !j.

The informal description of the evolutionary algorithm in section 3.1
is fine but in the formal description I think it should be described
more in detail how substitutions in T are applied to \lambda in
particular how dependencies and precedence constraints are handled.

In the end of section 3.1, it is mentioned that within an infinite
horizon, the exact optimum is always reachable by the GA because of
the "significant role or randomness". Is there a formal proof of this
reachability ? 

In the computational experiments, is it the case that for each problem
instance, one and only one disruption is treated (and is based on
doubling the durations of half of the activities). In the beginning of
the section one reads that "several disruptions occurs during its
execution" but later on, it is not clear which disruptions are
considered.

How is the baseline schedule computed? How close is a tight baseline
schedule to the optimal solution of the RCPSP that uses the same
activities? This is important for understanding the figures on Table 2
because if the baseline schedule is really very bad in terms of cost
(f(s^\Delta) big), then the figures in Table 2 will tend to be close
to 100%.

As Multi-Mode RCPSP is a special case of x-RCPSP, it would have been
very informative to compare the proposed algorithm with the
state-of-the-art for this problem. In particular, does the proposed
evolutionary algorithm degenerates to a known Multi-Mode RCPSP
algorithm when restricted to this problem? If not, how does it
compares with state-of-the-art approaches for Multi-Mode RCPSP?

The computational experiments are not really informative about the
actual performance of the approach but they are a starting point for
future comparison with other approaches. From this standpoint, making
the problem instances and detailed results available to the community
is an important contribution.

The title of the last section is "Conclusions and Future Work" but
there is nothing about future work in this section.

[1] Approaches to Operative Decision Support in the Management of
Aircraft Turnaround Disruptions. 2nd International Conference on
Research in Air Transportation. June 2006.

[2] Extending the Resource-Constrained Project Scheduling Problem for
Disruption Management. 3rd IEEE Conference On Intelligent Systems. 4-6
September 2006.

Typos:

section 2.3 "Outgoing passengers enter the aircraft (boarding) before
the the ..."


--------------------------------------------------------
Confidential comments to PC members:


--------------------------------------------------------
Summary of review (to author(s) and PC members):


The article describes:
1. an extension of RCPSP called x-RCPSP that introduces the notions of
optional, substitutable and alternatives activities
2. an evolutionary algorithm for solving x-RCPSP
3. a benchmark for x-RCPSP
4. an experimental study of the proposed algorithm

The RCPSP extension is really interesting for the scheduling
community. The description of the model could be improved and
simplified. A few points in the description of the proposed genetic
algorithm should be clarified. The computational experiments are not
really informative about the actual performance of the approach but
they are a starting point for future comparison with other
approaches. From this standpoint, making the problem instances and
detailed results available to the community is an important
contribution.
