/nfs/schedule/phlab/biblio/time/metric-dense/aaai02-broxvall.pdf

We begin this section by giving  the definition of STP!= introduced by
Gerevini   and Cristani  (1997) and   recall  some  of their  previous
results.


Gerevini, A., and Cristani, M. 1997. On finding a solution in temporal
constraint  satisfaction  problems.  In  Proceedings  of the Fifteenth
International Joint  Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI 97),
1460 1465.




A. Gerevini, Matteo Cristani, "On Temporal Constraint Networks with
inequations",      R.T.199611-3, Dipartimento  di Elettronica  per
l'Automazione, Università di Brescia, Novembre 1996.


Abstract  

We analyze an extension of Decheter, Meiri and Pearl's Simple Temporal
Constraint Networks (STN) to include inequations between timepoints in
a dense time model. Such constraints can be useful in modeling domains
where "instantaneous" events occur.  An STN augmented with inequations
(STN) provides   an    increase  in  expressiveness   without   losing
tractability,  allowing  the   uniform representation  of  both metric
distance constraints   between time points,  and qualitative  temporal
relations  in   Vilainand Kautz's  Point    Algebra  (PA) and   in the
pointizable subclass of Allen's Interval Algebra (PIA).  Given a set S
of constraints represented through  an STNT, we provide algorithms for
deciding consistency  of t  in O(n^3+k) time  and O(n^2+k)  space, for
enforcing path-consistency in O(max(n^3,kn^2)) time and O(kn^2) space,
and for computing the minimal network  ofT in O(max(n^3,kn2)) time and
O(kn^2) space, where  n is the  number of the variables  in S and K is
the number of the inequations. A  conseguence of these results is that
extending   an STN  with the   inequations   required to express   the
relations of PA (PIA)  leaves un affected  the complexity  of deciding
consistency.  Similarly, extending    the  relations of PA  (PIA)   to
include the   metric  constraints of  an  STN  leaves un  affected the
complexity of computing the minimal network.
