Title: Managing Coordination in Temporal Planning using Planner-Scheduler Interaction

Authors: Andrew Coles, Maria Fox, Keith Halsey and Derek Long

Corr. author: Derek Long, Derek.Long@cis.strath.ac.uk

Addresses (including mail addresses): Dept. Computer and Information Sciences, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, UK.
{andrew.coles,maria.fox,amanda.smith,derek.long}@cis.strath.ac.uk

Abstract:

Temporal planning contains aspects of both planning and
scheduling. Many temporal planners assume a loose coupling between
these two sub-problems in the form of ``blackbox'' durative actions,
where the state of the world is not known during the action's
execution. This simplifies the temporal planning problem and restricts
what can be modelled. In particular, the simplification makes it
impossible to model coordination, where actions {\em must} be executed
concurrently to achieve a desired effect.

Coordination results from logical and temporal constraints that must
both be met, and for this reason, the planner and scheduler
\emph{must} communicate in order to find a valid temporal plan. This
work examines where coordination arises in temporal domains, and then
uses this information to minimise communication between a planner and
scheduler in a temporal planner called \crikey. Results presented show
\crikey\ to be a competitive planner, whilst not making the same
simplifying assumptions. The investigation of the interaction between
planning and scheduling has revealed a class of problems, which can be
modelled using {\sc pddl2.1}, that cannot be solved by
state-of-the-art planners.  \crikey\ is able to solve temporal
problems involving coordination that other planners are unable to
solve.


1 What is the original contribution of this work?

The original contribution of this work is that it describes a temporal
planner that is the first and, currently, only planner capable of
solving a class of planning problems that require exploitation of
concurrency in the structure of their plans.

2 Why should this contribution be considered important?

Temporal planning is a very lively research area in AI Planning,
currently, with particular interest being expressed in the question of
what kinds of domains require precisely this kind of temporal
coordination of plans.

3 What is the most closely-related work by others and how does this
 work differ?

Closely related work includes other work on temporal planners, such as
Minh Binh Do's work on Sapa, Edelkamp's work on MIPS and Gerevini's
work, with colleagues, on LPG. There is also a relationship to recent
analysis of temporal domains, including work by Cushing et al. None of
this work describes an implemented solution to the problem of temporal
planning in the domains we consider.

4 How can other researchers make use of the results of this work?

The work can be used by researchers to extend the capabilities of
existing planners. Furthermore, the implemented planner is available
for download and experimentation.

5 If any part of this work has been submitted elsewhere, please state
 where it has been submitted and how it differs from this paper.

The work is original. It is based on work submitted by Keith Halsey
for his PhD, but is significantly rewritten for this manuscript.

6 Keywords: Planning, Temporal planning, Planning and scheduling interface


