Reviewer: P. LABORIE

A. Coles, M. Fox, K. Halsey, D. Long, A. Smith

Managing Coordination in Temporal Planning using Planner-Scheduler
Interaction

AI 3932
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       
CONTENT
						Yes     No
Is the paper technically sound?  Yes

Is the work described original?  Yes

Does it show sufficient applicability to AI? Yes

Does it place new results in appropriate context with earlier work? No

  I think some references are missing to other temporal
  planning approaches that addresses the same problem of soundness and
  completeness when temporal concurrency is involved (see below).

Does anything need to be added or deleted? No

Is the result important enough to warrant publication? Yes

  I think the article should be accepted for publication with some
  minor changes.

FORM
						Yes     No

Does the abstract adequately reflect the contents? Yes

Are the summary and conclusions adequate? Yes

  Still, the conclusion is quite long and the section 12.1 (Critique
  of Crikey) would deserve to be presented in a separate section
  before the conclusion.

Does it contain adequate references to previous work?  No

Does it explain clearly what was done that is new? 

Does it clearly indicate why this work is important? 

Is the English satisfactory? Yes

Is the presentation otherwise satisfactory? 

Are there an appropriate number of figures? Yes
Do the figures help clarify the concepts in the paper? Yes

  I really appreciate the figures, they help a lot.

RECOMMENDATION - 

Publish with minor revision

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments to editor:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments to author(s):

The article addresses an important problem in AI Planning: how to
efficiently handle time and durative actions in complex domains where
temporal concurrency is important (and sometimes needed) without
sacrificing the completeness of the search.

As far as completeness is concerned, it would be good to state early in
the paper (in the introduction?) that Crikey, although 'more' complete
than the planning systems mentioned in the paper, is not
complete. This is only mentioned at the end of the conclusion although
it is an important fact and the beginning of the paper seems to
indicate that Crikey is complete. On this question of completeness, 

The claim that there is no implemented solution to the problem of
temporal planning in the domains considered in the paper should be
softened. For instance, the IxTeT system [1] is able to tackle this
type of problem where temporal concurrency is needed and the algorithm
is complete. The system would have no problem solving the Match
domain.

Section 4 introduces the <max and <min relationships but these
relationships are not used later in the paper. One sees the link with
the definition of envelopes in section 6 but these relationships are
never explicitly mentioned there. Furthermore, although it is quite
intuitive, there is no proof that these constraints cannot be properly
handled with action compression so maybe the first sentence in the
beginning of section 5 should be rephrased.

Is there a risk of explosion of the number of open envelopes in Crikey
? It would be good, if possible, to give an idea of the maximum number
of open envelopes: is it quadratic with the number of actions
currently in the schedule or more? what are the 'pathological' cases,
etc.

In the scheduling part, did you investigate an approach that also do
some partial order lifting on the resource fluents, starting from the
total order to build a partial order by removing some
precedences. Something like the POS generation approached used in
[2]. I think that could be interesting and could speed up the
scheduling part.

The explanation why Floyd-Warshall algorithm is needed to compute the
earliest possible start time for each action is not clear. Why a
single-source shortest path starting from X0 is not enough ? Why would
you need to run it from each action ?

When printed, it is really difficult to distinguish between the
different curves in the section about performance analysis. That may be
an issue for the final print.

[1] M. Ghallab and H. Laruelle, "Representation and Control in IxTeT,
a Temporal Planner", In Proc. AIPS-94, pp61-67, Chicago, 1994

[2] P. Laborie and D. Godard, "Self-adapting large neighborhood
search: Application to single-mode scheduling problems". In
Proc. MISTA-07, 2007.

Some more detailed comments:

p2: "planning with real rather than relative time". The term 'real'
sounds strange (relative time is also real). Maybe you should use
"quantitative" v.s. "qualitative" as in the temporal reasoning
community.

end of p5- beginning of 6: the explanation is not clear at this point
of the paper why the type of the problem changes depending on the
language it is modeled in.

p7: the fact conditional effects are not considered is stated twice in
the first paragraph.
 
p7: def2: "an STRIPS action" 

p9: in the end of the page, maybe it would be useful to give an
example of the use of dummy propositional effect to ensure the
precedence.

p12: it is not said what P-inv means. It should be said that it is a a
dummy propositional effect to ensure the precedence. Furthermore, I do
not understand why P-inv needs to be in the add list of P<->. Is it a
typo ?

p32: def16: in the formula I guess one should read an intersection
instead of an inclusion.

p33: figure 13 is quite ugly with text being intersected by the
shapes.

p39: the caption of table 2 is strange.

p55: I think it should be mentioned in section 12.1 that because of
the loose coupling between planning and scheduling, optimality cannot
be proved.
