Title:	Local Search for Flowshops with Setup Times and Blocking Constraints

Evaluation

Significance (*). Does the paper contribute a major breakthrough or an incremental advance?
 3: substantial contribution or strong impact
 2: modest contribution or average impact
*1: minimal contribution or weak impact
 
Soundness (*). Is the technical development accurate?
 3: correct
*2: minor inconsistencies or small fixable errors
 1: major errors
 
Scholarship (*). Please provide a scholarship score.
 3: excellent coverage of related work
*2: relevant literature cited but could be expanded
 1: important related work missing, or mischaracterizes prior research
 
Clarity (*). Please provide a clarity score.
 3: well written
 2: mostly readable with some room for improvement
*1: hard to follow
 
Reproducibility (*). Please provide a reproducibility score.
 5: code and domains (whichever apply) are already publicly available
 4: authors promise to release code and domains (whichever apply)
 3: authors describe the implementation and domains in sufficient detail
 2: some details missing but still appears to be replicable with some effort
*1: difficult to reproduce because of missing detail
 
Overall evaluation (*). Please provide an overall score.
  3: strong accept
  2: accept
  1: weak accept
 -1: weak reject
*-2: reject
 -3: strong reject
 
Reviewer's confidence (*). Reviewer's confidence
 4: expert
*3: high
 2: medium
 1: low
 
Suitable for a demo? (*). Suitable for a demo?
 3: yes
 2: maybe
*1: no
 
Nominate for Best Paper Award (*). Nominate for Best Paper Award
 2: yes
*1: no
 
Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (if eligible) (*). Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (if eligible)
 2: yes
*1: no

Additional scores

[Applications track ONLY]: Importance and novelty of the application (*). [Applications track ONLY]: Importance and novelty of the application
 6: N/A (not an Applications track paper)
 5: very significant - approach and/or application are new and important
 4: novel - approach and/or application are new but not so important
 3: moderate - moderate significance of approach and/or application
 2: marginal - parts of the application or approach are new
 1: none - similar approach to the same application has been used before
 
[Applications track ONLY]: Importance of planning/scheduling technology to the solution of the problem (*). [Applications track ONLY]: Importance of planning/scheduling technology to the solution of the problem
 5: N/A (not an Applications track paper)
 4: very important - essential to solving the problem
 3: moderately important - adds significant capabilities
 2: marginally important - improves usability, capabilities or performance
 1: not important - could be done without it
 
[Applications track ONLY] Maturity (*). [Applications track ONLY] Maturity.
 7: N/A (not an Applications track paper)
 6: study of the success, acceptance, impact and/or deficiencies of a fielded system
 5: fielded system
 4: mature system with testing on realistic problems
 3: early prototype system with testing on realistic problems
 2: early prototype system with testing on artificial data
 1: challenge problem
 
[Robotics track ONLY]: Balance of Robotics and Automated Planning and Scheduling (*). [Robotics track ONLY]: Balance of Robotics and Automated Planning and Scheduling
 6: N/A (not a Robotics track paper)
 5: excellent mix between the two fields
 4: good mix between the two fields
 3: fair mix between the two fields
 2: nothing Robotics specific, pure "classical" ICAPS paper
 1: nothing on Automated Planning, pure Robotics paper
 
[Robotics Track ONLY]: Evaluation on physical platforms/simulators (*). [Robotics Track ONLY]: Evaluation on physical platforms/simulators
 6: N/A (not a Robotics track paper)
 5: runs on real robots
 4: runs in a standard robot simulator (Gazebo, Morse etc.)
 3: could be used with a simulator or robot system
 2: still some work to have it running on robots
 1: cannot run on a real or simulated robot system in its current form
 
[Robotics Track ONLY]: Significance of the contribution (*). [Robotics Track ONLY]: Significance of the contribution
 6: N/A (not a Robotics track paper)
 5: significant in both Robotics and Planning
 4: significant in Planning (i.e. planning researchers would care about this paper)
 3: significant in Robotics (i.e. robotics researchers would care about this paper)
 2: marginally significant in one Robotics and/or Planning
 1: not significant


Review

Review (*). 
Please provide a detailed review, including justification for your scores. This review will be sent to the authors unless the PC chairs decide not to do so.

The paper adresses a permutation flowshop scheduling problem with sequence-dependent setup-times and two sorts of blocking constraints. After describing the problem, it proposes several ingredients (construction heuristics, path relinking, local search neighborhoods) assembled together in a metaheuristics.

I find the paper difficult to read. The different components of the approach are described more or less well (and we can get, with some effort, a more or less good idea of what is going one), but the way the components are articulated is not really clear. The top level algorithm (Algorithm 1) mentions three sub-procedures (Construct, Restart, LocalSearch) that are described only very informally. For instance it is not clear how path relinking is articulated with the rest of the metaheuristic. I think that the use of pseudocode (Algorithms 1..4) should be made more consistent through the paper so that the reader can get more easily an idea of the overall approach.

There are many options / parameters in the approach (and one can hardly qualify it as "parameter-free" as stated in the abstract, even if the parameteres are tuned for the specific studied benchmark). Some of the choices are motivated, some are studied in the experimental section but others really look very arbitrary. For instance, why not considering swaps in the Path Relinking component? You say: "As the operator, we could use swap instead of insertion, but to keep the restart procedure somewhat consistent with the two construction algorithms, we use insertion". I do not understand this argument of "consistency".

One of the thing that really surprises me in the paper is the complexity of the permutation decoding algorithm. You say without justification that it is in O(n^3 m). Is it a typo? It seems at first sight that a chronological algorithm from left to right, probably using some heap to maintain the minimal start times of jobs (the max operation of equations 5) could allow doing it in something like O(n.m log(n.m)). The reported complexity would require a more detailed explanation in the article and some comments in the rebuttal phase.

The experimental results look interesting, even if the "small" gaps with alternative approaches (often less than 1%) may suggest that all the methods are more or less equally good (or equally bad in the absence of lower bounds). In the last experiments (Effect of variable neighborhoods), why are you using NNEH as construction option given that in the section just above you show that option SNEH is more performant?

There are many typos in the paper, many of which could be detected by a simple spellchecker (problme, Guieded, Rcently, giuded, constaint, ...).
Other minor comments:
- p2, col1: "Under RCb, a machine cannot start processing a job until the previous job leaves the next." I would add the next "machine" to desambiguate the end of the sentence.
- p3, col2: "This speedup is crucial for time performance of a local search algorithm". The speed-up is "only" 40-50%. So of course it is non-negligible but I wouldn't call it crucial. In any case, my feeling is that you could get much better speed-up by reducing the cubic complexity of the permutation decoding algorithm.
- p3, col2: in Algorithm 1, instead of option number (option is 3) I would use a name for the option. Also the name of the "Restart(\pi)" function is strange. In general, when one restart, one does not use the incumbent solution \pi, but one rather restart from scratch (so something similar to "Construct"). 
- p4, col1: I'm not sure why the path relinking option is qualified as "knowledge-based" ...
- p4, col2: in last section: "When using insertion, typically a job is randomly selected and removed from >>then<< current solution". The?
- p5, col1: In Algorithm 4 one does not understand the meaning of "we use N to be 1 or 2", until the experiments where you say you use at most 2 neighborhoods. Why this limitation by the way?
- p7, col1: "While so far we presented summarise[d]"
- p7, col1: On Table 5 the caption mentions SDST10 instances (ARPD of algorithms for SDST10 instances) whereas the table also shows results for other setup-times

In summary, the paper introduces some interesting ideas (related with the characteristics of the particular problem being solved) inside some well known heuristic components (like local search or path relinking) but (1) the paper lacks some structure to precisely (and maybe more formally) describe how the different components of the approach are articulated, (2) the complexity of the decoding step in O(n^3 m) should be explained.
 

Confidential remarks for the program committee. If you wish to add any remarks intended only for PC members, please write them below. These remarks will only be seen by the PC members having access to reviews for this submission. They will not be sent to the authors. This field is optional.


