Significance. Does the paper contribute a major breakthrough or an incremental advance? (Text is optional.)
 3: substantial contribution or strong impact
 2: modest contribution or average impact
*1: minimal contribution or weak impact

Soundness. Is the technical development accurate? (Text is optional.)
*3: correct
 2: minor inconsistencies or small fixable errors
 1: major errors
 
Scholarship. Is related work cited and discussed? (Text is optional.)
 3: excellent coverage of related work
 2: relevant literature cited but could be expanded
*1: important related work missing, or mischaracterizes prior research

I think the paper is really missing some complexity analysis of the problem and some links with classical graph algorithms. See review.

Clarity. Is the paper clearly organized and clearly written? (Text is optional.)
*3: well organized and well written
 2: mostly readable with some room for improvement
 1: hard to follow
 
Reproducibility. Can the work be reproduced or verified based on the paper and any supporting information or data? (Text is optional.)
 5: code and domains (whichever apply) are already publicly available
 4: authors promise to release code and domains (whichever apply)
*3: authors describe the implementation and domains in sufficient detail
 2: some details missing but still appears to be replicable with some effort
 1: difficult to reproduce because of missing detail
 
Importance and novelty of the application. Importance and novelty of the application. (Text is optional.)
 5: very significant - approach and/or application are new and important
 4: novel - approach and/or application are new but not so important
 3: moderate - moderate significance of approach and/or application
*2: marginal - parts of the application or approach are new
 1: none - similar approach to the same application has been used beforeMaturity. 
 
Maturity. (Text is optional.)
 6: study of the success, acceptance, impact and/or deficiencies of a fielded system
 5: fielded system
 4: mature system with testing on realistic problems
*3: early prototype system with testing on realistic problems
 2: early prototype system with testing on artificial data
 1: challenge problem

Overall evaluation.* Please provide an overall score.
 3: strong accept
 2: accept
 1: weak accept
 0: borderline paper
 -1: weak reject
*-2: reject
 -3: strong reject

Review.

The article studies an interesting optimization problem that consists in allocating buses to a set of predefined and fixed trips.

The first three sections of the paper introduce the general problem.

Some meta-heuristics (GRASP and Simulated Annealing) are described and compared to a GA in an experimental section. 

I think the main issue with the article is that the problem is presented as a variant of a VRP, which is not wrong in itself, but, because the trips are fixed, it completely changes the structure of the problem. In the end, the central problem is not to find a sequence of visits for a bus but it is "just" to find some allocation of the buses to the trips, the sequence is a consequence of the allocation. Because the problem is very different from a traditional VRP, I think its algorithmic complexity should be studied. In the article nothing is said about the complexity of the problem and exact methods are evacuated without any convincing explanation.

Typically: "Many techniques of different nature can be found in literature to solve VRP and its several versions. It is well known that exact algorithms can only solve small instances of the problem (Laporte 1992) and they become unviable quickly as the problem grows. Given the intrinsic difficulty of this problem, approximation methods seem to offer the most promise for practical size problems". This may be true for VRP and some of its extensions but the problem studied in the paper is also much simpler than the VRP as the trips are fixed.

Furthermore, the experiments are performed only on a particular version of the problem for which all the buses are the same (in particular: same capacity). The compact representation over which the meta-heuristic operates strongly relies on this assumption. And it is even not clear that under this assumption the problem is NP-Complete. 

For instance, under this assumption of equivalent buses, the version of the problem that minimizes the number of buses (mentioned as one of the objectives in the problem specification) seems to be solvable in polynomial time. Indeed you can build a DAG G with one node v_i per trip and an arc v_i -> v_j iff trip v_j can be performed right after trip v_i (r_j > r_i + t_p_iq_i + t_q_ip_j AND r_j <= r_i + t_p_iq_i + t_q_ip_j + MWT) by the same bus. The problem of minimizing the number of buses is the problem of finding a minimum path cover of G, which can be solved in polynomial time. The version that minimizes the total unused distance is a minimum weight path cover of G. And I think this problem can be reformulated as a minimal flow problem that can also be solved in polynomial time (see for instance [1]). Furthermore, directed graph G has a special structure (except for MWT it is transitively closed, it is 'almost' the complementary of an interval graph, etc...) which could help to speed up its resolution by efficient exact graph algorithms.

This is to say that, on this problem (the one solved in the experimental section), I don't buy the statement that "exact algorithms can only solve small instances of the problem" without a more detailed analysis (complexity study, exact graph algorithms, etc.)

Now, if we consider the general problem as described in the "problem specification" section, in particular with vehicle-dependent capacities, it seems that it complexifies the problem (though "maybe" the formulation as a min-flow problem could be adapted) and again, the complexity should be analyzed. But in this general case, I think the proposed compact representation (that avoids considering each bus individually) does not work anymore.

[1] T. Paavilainen. Faster algorithms for minimum path cover by graph decomposition.