Title:
Algorithms for Propagating Resource  Constraints in A.I.  Planning and
Scheduling: Existing Approaches and New Results

Author: 
Philippe Laborie

1. What is the original contribution of this work?

This  paper describes   two  new  algorithms to  propagate  cumulative
resources in  constraint-based   scheduling and AI  planning.  It also
discusses some of their possible extensions.

2. Why should this contribution be considered important?  

Some tools  are still missing  to solve problems  that lie  between AI
planning and pure  scheduling and that is  one of the main reasons why
AI planning often fails to solve  realistic problems.  This paper is a
contribution to bridge this gap. The algorithms proposed in this paper
are inspired  from AI planning  techniques - that  is  why they easily
extend to AI planning - and were successfully applied to close a serie
of open scheduling problems involving complex resources.

3. What is the most closely-related work by others and how does this
  work differ?

The most  closely-related work is   [Cesta&Stella97] where the authors
propose a constraint  propagation algorithm to discover new precedence
constraint  on reservoirs. Our contribution   can  be considered as  a
substantial extension and generalization of this work.

[Cesta&Stella97].  A. Cesta and C. Stella. A Time and Resource Problem
for Planning Architectures. ECP-97. 1997.

4. How can other researchers make use of the results of this work?

This  contribution offers   perspectives in   both  AI  planning   and
scheduling.

In  constraint  based    scheduling,  this   contribution   shows that
approaches inspired from AI planning  may be competitive and even  may
outperform  some more classical approaches.   From  a more theoretical
perspective, this work tends to show that cumulative scheduling is not
much more  complex than disjunctive  scheduling  and that most  of the
techniques   traditionally  used in  disjunctive  scheduling  could be
extended to cumulative scheduling. This work is clearly a step forward
in this direction.

In PO   or  HTN planning,   this  work shows    that complex  resource
constraints (cumulative, producible  and  consumable) can be   handled
during    planning   in   a     very   similar   way   as    classical
attributes. Furthermore, the  constraint programming  framework allows
inheriting a large  panel of mature  constraint propagation and search
techniques developed for pure scheduling.

5. If any part of this work has been submitted elsewhere, please state
  where it has been submitted and how it differs from this paper.

This  work is an extension   and  an improvement  on  an article  that
received  the  best paper  award   at the  6th  European Conference on
Planning (ECP-01), Toledo, Spain, Sept 2001.

6  Keywords:   
Scheduling, AI Planning, Constraint Programming, Cumulative resources


