Title:	Total Completion Time Minimization for Scheduling with Incompatibility Cliques
Authors:	(anonymous)
PC member:	Philippe Laborie

Evaluation
Significance / Importance.
* Does the paper contribute a major breakthrough or an incremental advance? If the paper describes an application, is the application important?
 3: substantial contribution or strong impact
>2: modest contribution or average impact
 1: minimal contribution or weak impact

Soundness.
* Is the technical development accurate? Does the paper present convincing evidence that supports their claims?
>3: correct
 2: minor inconsistencies or small fixable errors
 1: major errors

Novelty.
* Is the research approach described novel? For an application paper, is the application novel?
>3: novel - approach and/or application are new and only a few other similar approaches and/or applications exist
 2: moderate - approach and/or application have been developed before, but significant improvements are presented
 1: marginal - only parts of the application and/or approach are new

Scholarship.
* Is related work cited and discussed?
>3: excellent coverage of related work
 2: relevant literature cited but could be expanded
 1: important related work missing, or mischaracterizes prior research

Clarity.
* Is the paper clearly organized and clearly written? Does the submission make explicit claims about the capabilities or behavior of the approach?
 3: well organized and well written
>2: mostly readable with some room for improvement
 1: hard to follow

Technology Readiness Level.
* How would you characterize the Technology Readiness Level of the contribution
 9: Actual system proven through successful mission operations
 8: Actual system completed and qualified through test and demonstration
 7: System prototype demonstration in an operational environment
 6: System/subsystem model or prototype demonstration in a relevant environment
 5: Component and/or breadboard validation in relevant environment
 4: Component and/or breadboard validation in laboratory environment
 3: Analytical and experimental critical function and/or characteristic proof of concept
 2: Technology concept and/or application formulated
 1: Basic principles observed and reported
>0: N/A - not applicable

Reproducibility.
* Can the work be reproduced or verified based on the paper and any supporting information or data?
 5: code and data (whichever apply) are already publicly available
 4: authors promise to release code and data (whichever apply)
 3: authors describe the implementation and data in sufficient detail
 2: some details missing but still appears to be replicable with some effort
 1: difficult to reproduce because of missing detail
>0: N/A - nothing to reproduce

Suitability for Special Track.
* Is the paper suitable to the track it was submitted to
 8: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Almost all focus is on learning
 7: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Almost all focus is on planning
 6: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Good balance between planning and learning
 5: Special Track on Robotics - Almost all focus is on robotics
 4: Special Track on Robotics - Almost all focus is on planning
 3: Special Track on Robotics - Good balance between planning and robotics
 2: Novel Applications - Planning & Scheduling are not Important for the Application
 1: Novel Applications - Planning & Scheduling are Important for the Application
>0: N/A - submitted to the main track

Overall evaluation.
* Please provide an overall score.
 3: strong accept
>2: accept
 1: weak accept
 0: borderline paper
 -1: weak reject
 -2: reject
 -3: strong reject

Review.* Detailed review. (Required)

The paper studies the complexity of different variants of a scheduling problem on multiple machines with machine incompatibility between jobs being represented as an incompatibility graph: there is an arc between two jobs if and only if the two jobs cannot be executed on the same machine. 

The results presented in the paper extend some recent studies on machine incompatibility graph that were focusing on makespan minimization while the present paper is on the minimization of the total completion time. The present results are significant, they consist on polynomiality results on some restricted versions of the problem (problems with identical machines or with machine-independent processing time), some hardness results, and some fixed-parameter tractability results (in particular depending on the number of machines, the largest processing time or the number of job types).

While the paper is dense, it is clearly written and organized, with a general presentation of the problem and notations, a summary of the results (Table 1) and different sections for the different types of results (polynomiality results, harness results, FPT) with some illustrative examples when needed.

There is something that is not clear: in the introduction you say "More formally, an incompatibility graph G = (J;E) is part of the input, and an edge (j,j') in E signifies that in a feasible schedule j and j' cannot be assigned to the same machine. In this paper, we study variants of R||sum (w_j)C_j in which the incompatibility graph is a collection of cliques corresponding to the groups of jobs mentioned above". So it seems that the paper studies the case of disjoint cliques, that is, a restricted case of graph G. Do you confirm ? The introduction of the incompatibility graph G may suggest that you handle the case of a general graph.

Some more detailed comments:

"However, by the fact that for any machine we can order the jobs assigned to it optimally, according to Smith’s rule (Smith 1956), for brevity we do not specify the starting times explicitly." This depends on the constraints on the jobs on the machine. For instance if there are release dates then the problem on 1 machine is NP Hard (1| r_j |sum C_j).

In Table 1, the notation for the second polynomial problem was not introduced before in the problem notations. You define P|cliques,M(j)|... (For example, by P|cliques;M(j)|Cmax we understand a subproblem of R|cliques|Cmax ...) but you do not define R|cliques,M(j)|...)

A suggestion: maybe in Table 1 you could add the different complexities for the last three FPT cases ...

In section "Open problems": While this paper presents quiet a => quite a


Questions
---------

Q1: Do you confirm that the paper does not study the case of a general incompatibility graph G but the restricted case where G is a union of disjoint cliques ? Do you have an idea of the impact of taking into account general graphs in the study ?

Q2: Many results in the paper rely on the asumption that finding the optimal sequencing of jobs on a machine is not required or that it is "easy" to find one. In many real-life problems, this is not the case, for instance if there are release dates, the sequencing problem on a machine is NP Hard (1| r_j |sum C_j). Do you have an idea how the results presented in the paper could extend to these more complex cases ? Both from a theoretical point of view (FPT on additional parameter sets) and also from the perspective of efficiently solving the problems ..


Reviewer's confidence.
* Reviewer's confidence
 4: (expert)
>3: (high)
 2: (medium)
 1: (low)
 
Suitable for a demo?.
* Suitable for a demo?
 3: yes
 2: maybe
>1: no
 
Nominate for Best Paper Award?. 
 yes

Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (assuming it is eligible) ?. 
 yes
 
Confidential remarks for the program committee. 
If you wish to add any remarks intended only for PC members please write them below. These remarks will only be seen by the PC members having access to reviews for this submission. They will not be sent to the authors. This field is optional.


