Title:	Automated Production Scheduling for Artificial Teeth Manufacturing
Authors:	(anonymous)
PC member:	Philippe Laborie

Evaluation
Significance / Importance.
* Does the paper contribute a major breakthrough or an incremental advance? If the paper describes an application, is the application important?
 3: substantial contribution or strong impact
>2: modest contribution or average impact
 1: minimal contribution or weak impact

Soundness.
* Is the technical development accurate? Does the paper present convincing evidence that supports their claims?
>3: correct
 2: minor inconsistencies or small fixable errors
 1: major errors

Novelty.
* Is the research approach described novel? For an application paper, is the application novel?
 3: novel - approach and/or application are new and only a few other similar approaches and/or applications exist
>2: moderate - approach and/or application have been developed before, but significant improvements are presented
 1: marginal - only parts of the application and/or approach are new

Scholarship.
* Is related work cited and discussed?
>3: excellent coverage of related work
 2: relevant literature cited but could be expanded
 1: important related work missing, or mischaracterizes prior research

Clarity.
* Is the paper clearly organized and clearly written? Does the submission make explicit claims about the capabilities or behavior of the approach?
>3: well organized and well written
 2: mostly readable with some room for improvement
 1: hard to follow

Technology Readiness Level.
* How would you characterize the Technology Readiness Level of the contribution
 9: Actual system proven through successful mission operations
 8: Actual system completed and qualified through test and demonstration
 7: System prototype demonstration in an operational environment
 6: System/subsystem model or prototype demonstration in a relevant environment
 5: Component and/or breadboard validation in relevant environment
>4: Component and/or breadboard validation in laboratory environment
 3: Analytical and experimental critical function and/or characteristic proof of concept
 2: Technology concept and/or application formulated
 1: Basic principles observed and reported
 0: N/A - not applicable

Reproducibility.
* Can the work be reproduced or verified based on the paper and any supporting information or data?
 5: code and data (whichever apply) are already publicly available
 4: authors promise to release code and data (whichever apply)
 3: authors describe the implementation and data in sufficient detail
>2: some details missing but still appears to be replicable with some effort
 1: difficult to reproduce because of missing detail
 0: N/A - nothing to reproduce

Suitability for Special Track.
* Is the paper suitable to the track it was submitted to
 8: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Almost all focus is on learning
 7: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Almost all focus is on planning
 6: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Good balance between planning and learning
 5: Special Track on Robotics - Almost all focus is on robotics
 4: Special Track on Robotics - Almost all focus is on planning
 3: Special Track on Robotics - Good balance between planning and robotics
 2: Novel Applications - Planning & Scheduling are not Important for the Application
>1: Novel Applications - Planning & Scheduling are Important for the Application
 0: N/A - submitted to the main track

Overall evaluation.
* Please provide an overall score.
 3: strong accept
>2: accept
 1: weak accept
 0: borderline paper
 -1: weak reject
 -2: reject
 -3: strong reject

Review.* Detailed review. (Required)

The paper describe a very interesting application in for the scheduling of the production of artificial teeth. The problem is expressed as a one-machine scheduling problem with complex batching rules and multiple objectives (makespan, total tardiness, waste minimization). The resulting problem is very challenging. The article studies several resolution approaches: a greedy algorithm, some MIP anf CP formulations as well as a Local-Search approach with problem-specific moves. An experimental study is performed between these approaches concluding that the best approach on real size problem is the Local-Search approch starting from the solution provided by the greedy algorithm. 

You say in the introduction that the collection of instances is made publicly available but I could not find where. I suppose you plan to add a pointer to the instances in the final version. Given that you formulated them in Minizinc, I suppose it would make sense to provide them in the Minizinc format together with the problem formulation.

Minor comments & typos:

- In the description of the variables after Table 1: "The mould types (with colors)": Maybe the "number" of mould types would be more precise

- In the description of the objective functions auxiliary variables: "Set the job times": "Set the job [processing] times"

- In the CP model formulation, you say that 'max_jobs' is a parameter specified by the user. Would it be possible to automatically compute decent values for this parameter from the data ?

Questions for rebuttal:
-----------------------

Q1: Do you plan to make the benchmark publicly available ?


Reviewer's confidence.
* Reviewer's confidence
 4: (expert)
>3: (high)
 2: (medium)
 1: (low)
 
Suitable for a demo?.
* Suitable for a demo?
 3: yes
>2: maybe
 1: no
 
Nominate for Best Paper Award?. 
 yes

Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (assuming it is eligible) ?. 
 yes
 
Confidential remarks for the program committee. 
If you wish to add any remarks intended only for PC members please write them below. These remarks will only be seen by the PC members having access to reviews for this submission. They will not be sent to the authors. This field is optional.


