Number: 77
Title: Resource capacity and time lag propagation for RCPSP problem
Authors:	Dmitry Arkhipov, Olga Battaïa and Ilia Tarasov. 

Review:
-2: (reject)

The idea of using disjunctive functions g_ij(t) for constraint propagation, especially in conjunction with the maintenance of holes in the domains (forbidden start intervals) is interesting and really deserves to be investigated and I encourage the authors doing so.

This being said, I think this work is in a too early stage to be published at a conference like CPAIOR. Some important elements are missing:

1. The proposed propagation algorithms should be compared to the existing or the conjunction of existing propagation algorithms like the variants of edge-finding (including time-table edge-finding), energetic reasoning and precedence energy propagation. Some link should also be made with pre-processing techniques like the reformulation of resource capacities and required quantities used for obtaining a tighter (in a sense, more disjunctive) formulation (for instance [1]). 

2 . The interest of disjunctive functions g_ij(t) is their fine-grain expressivity as they depend on time t. But I think in practice, efficiently implementing this type of propagation will be a real challenge because of the potentially quadratic number of functions and the representation of each function. Furthermore, all these functions change during the search and need to be efficiently maintained. So if potentially these functions can help propagating more, it is far from being clear that they can have a practical interest. I think that some experimental study would be really necessary here. Indeed, when considering a conjunction of constraints like the ones in a RCPSP (conjunction of capacity constraints on the different resources, precedence constraints), it is not so difficult to imagine very strong propagation algorithms based on some form of aggregation of all these constraints but showing that these algorithms achieve a good balance between (1) strength of the additional propagation they bring v.s. (2) cost of running them really is the difficult part.

[1] Philippe Baptiste and Nicolas Bonifas. Redundant cumulative constraints to compute preemptive bounds. Discrete Applied Mathematics, June 2017.

Some more detailed comments:

- The paper uses the RCPSP as motivation in the introduction and in the state-of-the-art description in section 2. In fact, I have some doubt that the proposed techniques, and in particular the use of forbidden start times, is really useful in the “basic” version of the RCPSP. It seems to me that, unless you have maximal delays (which is not the case in the basic RCPSP), then the precedence constraints are not able to propagate the “holes” in the domains from activity to activity and that in this context maintained bound consistency is enough. I may be wrong, it would be interesting to show some examples of additional propagation thanks to forbidden starts in a basic RCPSP without maximal delays. Of course, when dealing with maximal delays like in RCPSP-Max, it is more clear that maintaining the holes in the domain may help, even if some example could help.

- In the description of Fig. 2, the end of the sentence “… but it can be processed at any moment of time in t in [0,T) is ambiguous because precisely, you say that the task cannot be processed during a sub-interval [t_0-p_j,t0’) of [0,T) …

- On page 5, point 2 about Resource capacity. It reads: “If for any time t and resource r … holds [a condition not depending on t]“. It seems to me that the “for any time t” is badly placed. It should be “If for any resource r … then for any time t, g_ij(t)=1”


Reviewer's confidence:	
5: (expert)
