Reviewer Blind Comments to Author
------------------------------------------

The article describes an approach for solving job-shop scheduling
problems with sequence-dependent setup times. It is an extended
version of a paper presented at MISTA 2005. It consists in a Shifting
Bottleneck Procedure where the one-machine problem is solved using a
Dynamic Programming algorithm already proposed by the authors in [5].

The approach is experimented on several benchmarks where it is shown
to improve on the state-of-the-art. Despite the fact the dynamic
programming algorithm to solve TSP with time-windows have already been
published by the authors elsewhere, its application to solve
scheduling problems with sequence-dependent setup times is original
and, given the experimental study, promising. I think the paper should
be accepted for publication in the Journal of Scheduling.

Some more detailed remarks follow.

In section 3, for space reasons I guess and also because it already
has been published in [5], the dynamic programming algorithm is only
sketched. However, I think it would be good to give a little bit more
details about it in particular to explain its algorithmic
complexity. The complexity in O(k^2 2^{k-2} |I|) should be explicitly
mentioned. The claim of a "linear-time heuristic that examines an
exponential-sized neighborhood" is misleading: the heuristics is
linear for a fixed k but the combinatorial explosion is hidden in the
constant factor.

Section 3 is in fact rather heavy. It would help to organize it in 3
sub-sections: (3.1) TSPTW formulation, (3.2) TSP with specific
precedence constraints and dynamic programming algorithm to solve it
and (3.3) formulation of TSPTW as TSP with specific precedence
constraints.

In the experimental results, it is surprising that results obtained
with k=10/15 are not much better than the ones obtained with 10/12. It
seems to suggest that running times could be improved by using even
smaller values for k. I guess it can be because for small problems
(typically with a number of jobs of the same order as k), the
heuristics is almost optimal. It would be interesting to have figures
for smaller values of k in order to have an idea of where the limits
are in terms of trade-of between running time and solution quality.

For the comparison on the benchmarks of Brucker and Thiele, it would
be interesting to say which values for k were used. The explanation of
the fact the proposed approach seems to scale better than previous
approaches is not really convincing:
1.  not all previous approaches need an exponential exploration of the
TSPTW: some of them use polynomial relaxations of the problem to guide
the search.
2. when the size of the problem grows (and specifically when the
number of jobs becomes much larger than k), one can expect the
linear time heuristic to become less and less informative.

Maybe part of the explanation is in the fact that even the biggest
instances of Brucker and Thiele are not that big in terms of number of
jobs (at most 20).

Note also the following very recent results on the same benchmark:
C. Artigues and D. Feillet. A Branch and bound method for the job-shop
problem with sequence dependent setup times. 


Reviewer Confidential Comments to Editor
------------------------------------------

The article describes an approach for solving job-shop scheduling
problems with sequence-dependent setup times. It is an extended
version of a paper presented at MISTA 2005. It consists in a Shifting
Bottleneck Procedure where the one-machine problem is solved using a
Dynamic Programming algorithm already proposed by the authors in [5].

The approach is experimented on several benchmarks where it is shown
to improve on the state-of-the-art. Despite the fact the dynamic
programming algorithm to solve TSP with time-windows have already been
published by the authors elsewhere, its application to solve
scheduling problems with sequence-dependent setup times is original
and, given the experimental study, promising. I think the paper should
be accepted for publication in the Journal of Scheduling.
