Reviewer Blind Comments to Author:

This paper applies and extends a Greedy Randomized Adaptative Search
Procedure (GRASP) to an industrial scheduling problem: the scheduling
of activities at oils wells. After a general description of the
scheduling problem, the authors describe the current scheduling
application (ORCA) that is based on constraint-programming. An
extension of the problem (namely the resource displacement) is then
presented that could not be satisfactorily handled by the current
constraint-programming approach. The authors propose an alternative
approach to solve the problem using a GRASP strategy that uses several
advanced techniques such as bias functions, proximate optimality
principle, intensification, path relinking and selective local
search. In an experimental section, the authors show that their
approach outperforms ORCA the current constraint-programming approach
in terms of solution quality. They present a detailed study of which
GRASP techniques are responsible for the success of the approach and
conclude that the main ingredient is the proximate optimality
principle.

The paper is well written and well structured. The experimental
results seem to be very good and, in any case, exhibit important
improvements with respect to the current approach. 

Still, I find that the article is not really fair with the usage of CP
in general (and ILOP CP product line in particular) with respect to
solving this type of scheduling problem. ORCA is implemented on top of
the ILOG CP optimization suite which is a library for solving
feasibility and optimization problems using CP. The present paper
makes some claims that do not seem well justified:

- In the last paragraph of page 5, it is said that the constraint
programming approach had many difficulties when treating the setup
times introduced by resource displacement. This is strange as there
is, in ILOG Scheduler, the concept of transition time which exactly
covers this need which is very common in scheduling problems. It
allows to represent and efficiently propagate setup times on
resources. Instead, in the ORCA implementation, a quadratic number of
meta-constraints is introduced which results in a dramatical slow down
of the engine (and a very weak propagation).

- It is not said which type of search was used in ORCA. Was it a pure
deterministic tree search? A randomized search? Was local search used
at some point? Pure deterministic tree search is known, especially in
scheduling, not to be very efficient for dealing with optimization
problems where at least some randomization is necessary. This is by no
mean inconsistent with using a CP framework.

- It is mentioned on page 11 (item 1) that the basic greedy heuristic
implemented in the present approach finds the best solution in 6 out
of 17 real instances. This basic heuristic clearly makes sense and
could have easily been implemented in ORCA on top of CP. This doesn't
seem to be the case as ORCA only finds the best solution in 2
instances (c.f. Table 5).

I strongly suggest the authors to clearly separate (1) the
benefits/drawbacks of using a CP framework from (2) the implementation
choices on how to use it that were made in ORCA (constraint model,
type of search, heuristics).

Some more detailed comments:

p4, constraint C4: does the model only contains disjunctive resources
and no cumulative ones? May an activity require several resources at
the same time?

p4, constraint C7: this constraint boils down to some simple
precedence constraints, right?

p5, section 1.4: I personally find it very disturbing to have all the
figures and tables in the end of the paper as one always have to
navigate between them and the text.

p8, in description of the PO:, it is not clear how LS is applied at
several points in the constructive phase. Their seems to be many
redundant moves when LS is successively applied on a schedule that is
growing. How is this handled?

p8, in description of Intensification: it is not clear if and how
solutions are removed from the elite set. Starting from the initial
solution and following the description, I do not see how the elite set
can be something else than all the solution explored so far with the
best cost so far. Is it possible to have an idea of the size of the
elite solutions set? A naive implementation of the computation of
Int(\alpha) has a linear complexity with respect to the number of
elite solutions. Is it an issue or is this negligible? Furthermore,
the value of Int(\alpha) should increase roughly linearly with the
number of elite solutions, thus this number seems to play an important
role for balancing the bias function, basically, if all elite
solutions were duplicated in the elite solution set, it has a big
impact on the bias whereas, I do not think it should change anything.

p11, item 3. The RCL is built with those wells that, together with
their successors offer the highest yields of oil. How is this
estimated? By using the earliest starting time for the activities and
their successors or are resource conflicts also considered in this
estimation?

p11. As mentioned before, it would be interesting to see which
heuristic was used in ORCA. It seems that it was a different (and
worse) heuristics.

p16, end of section 3.3. First, I want to say that I really appreciate
this section (although it is sometimes a bit long) whose objective is
to identify which advanced techniques contribute to the success of the
approach. The experimental study makes it clear that POP is the best
advanced technique on top of GRASP to solve the WDRDP. Given this, it
could have been interesting to individually test the other advanced
techniques on top of GRASP+POP, that is GRASP+POP+Bias (this was done:
G10), GRASP+POP+Int, GRASP+POP+P-R, GRASP+POP+SLS, GRASP+POP+BIR.

It would be very useful if some "synthetic" instances that captures
most of the complexity of this very challenging scheduling problem
were created and made available to the scheduling community.

As a final comment, I think the work described in this article is very
relevant and the proposed approach seems to obtain very good results
on an important industrial scheduling problem. I recommand its
publication in the Journal of Heuristics provided the positioning with
respect to the existing system ORCA is improved in order to clearly
separate (1) the benefits/drawbacks of using a CP framework from (2)
the implementation choices on how to use such a framework that were
made in ORCA (constraint model, type of search, heuristics).


Reviewer Confidential Comments to Editor:

Many points in the paper show that the implementation of ORCA did not
use well the CP framework (bad constraint model, bad heuristics,
probably bad search scheme). The problem is that the authors do not
seem to distinguish between the usage of a non-adequate tool
and the non-adequate usage of a tool. This should be clarified. 
