Dear Dr. Fu,

We have received all the reviews for the paper you submitted to JAIR,
entitled "Robust Local Search for Solving RCPSP/max with Durational
Uncertainty". The reviewers agree that the paper is on an important
topic relevant to AI and makes strong contributions. However, they
also identify several difficulties, which preclude publication at this
stage. Since JAIR's policy is to accept papers that only require minor
revisions, we cannot currently accept the paper. However, we would be
happy to see a revised paper on this subject--addressing the
reviewers' concerns--published in JAIR. Thus, I strongly encourage you
to resubmit the paper.

Attached you will find the reviewers' comments and suggestions. In my
reading of the comments, the following points are particularly salient
and important for you to address in a revision.

- Clarify the bound formulation and infeasibility computation
(Reviewer #2)

- Provide more insight, analysis, and interpretation of results
(Reviewers #1 and #2)

- Experimental evaluation. All reviewers identify the experiments as
an area that needs further thought and more work. I highlight their
comments not as requirements for the revision but to emphasize that
the reviewers have made a number of suggestions on how to improve
this aspect of the paper.

* Reviewer #1: While I agree with Reviewer #1's comments w.r.t. to
the problems with the current experiments, you should not feel
that you must follow the reviewer's suggestion that one of the
experiments should be removed - though you might consider it. I
suggest that some significant effort is spent in determining how
best to support your work with experimental evidence, guided by
the reviewers' comments and suggestions. You may want to perform
new experiments on different problems.

* Reviewer #2: Adapt the formulation to minimize the average
makespan in the JSSP.

* Reviewer #3: The suggestion to compare the quality of your
solutions against simple reactive rules with a simulation is a
very interesting one in my opinion. Such experiments will "close
the loop" with your theoretical contributions on approximating
makespan. They will also add something completely new compared to
the ICAPS version of the paper. You might consider doing such
experiments and then downplaying (or even removing) the JSSP
experiments. I would also suggest that including some indication
of CPU time of the algorithms is valuable in the experiments,
especially as the larger JSSP instances from (Beck & Wilson, 2007)
are not used.

- Clarify the use of Start-to-Start constraints and in particular the
definition of feasibility (Reviewers #1 and #2)

- Clarify the explanation of the local search algorithms (Reviewer #1)

Even though I have highlighted the above points, you should, of course,
read all the reviewers' comments in detail and address their concerns.

Please note that papers can be resubmitted to JAIR only once. If you
choose to revise the paper, please submit it through our standard web
process, and include a cover letter describing the changes and
responding to the reviewers' criticisms.

Thank you for submitting your paper to JAIR.

Regards,

Chris Beck
Associate Editor

--- Review #1 ---

This paper tackles the scheduling problem of robust makespan
minimization for scheduling instances whose activity durations are
modeled as random variables. Specifically, the problem is to find a
partial order schedule (POS) that minimizes its makespan value (robust
makespan), so that the probability that all makespan computed over all
uncertainty realizations do not exceed the robust makespan is greater
than a given threshold.

The paper provides a number of results that are presented in the
following logical order.

First, two decision rule approximations are produced (Segregated
linear Approximation [SLA], and General Non-Linear Approximation
[GNLA]), that allow to estimate the dependence of activity start times
on the durational uncertainty relative to the other activities, taking
into account the schedule's graph structure. Both approximation rules
are used to compute upper bounds on robust makespans.  Second, an
operational definition of Robust Fitness Function is presented as a
function of the expected value and variance of the adjustable fitness
function, that can be directly used as objective function in the local
search algorithm.  Third, the Local Search Algorithm is presented,
where the SLA and GNLA rules are used within the robust fitness
function to compute the POS with minimum robust makespan.  The authors
proceed by introducing further enhancements for the robust local
search, by (1) identifying the activity pairs that should preferably
follow the same (more convenient) ordering in all activity lists, to
help local search (Ordering Generation [OG]), and (2) providing an
improved chaining procedure based on robustness (Robustness Feedback
Chaining [RC]).  A thorough experimental evaluation is therefore
performed, that provides two types of analyses: the first is executed
on RCPSP/max instances, and is related to comparing the performances
of both SLA and GNLA decision rules and of GNLA alone with all OG and
RC enhancement combinations; the second is executed on JSSP instances,
and is related to comparing the presented robust local search
algorithm guided by GNLA with the results obtained by (Beck & Wilson,
2007) on the same problem.

The paper is generally interesting, and it is characterized by a good
survey on related literature. It is clear that there is a considerable
amount of work behind this paper, starting from the theoretical
analysis resulting in the production of the new decision rules
approximations, the Ordering Generation pre-processing step, the
Robustness Feedback Chaining, and finally the experimental analysis.

The main problem that the reviewer sees in this work is mainly related
to its length, and to some extent of non-homogeneity in the treated
topics.

The strong impression that the reader receives is that the authors
simply decided to talk about too many things in this work, while a
better choice would have probably been to reduce the paper's scope and
provide a more thorough explanation of a smaller number of
subjects. While the reviewer understands the need to provide a larger
basis for experimental evaluation and comparison than existing works
allow, this choice forces the authors to the co-existence in the paper
of two different scheduling problems (i.e., the RCPSP/max and the
JSSP) that cannot be homogeneously treated in the experimental
part. The RCPSP/max is merely used to perform "in house comparison"
(pag. 3, line 17), while only the JSSP can be used for a true
comparison with existing work. This circumstance is even more evident
as the authors must admit at a certain point that the developed robust
local search method is not too suitable for solving JSSPs instances
with durational uncertainty, as it is not tailored for the less
general structure of the JSSP. The authors themselves claim at a
certain point that: "...the comparison may not be fair." (pag 33, line
2 from the bottom).

This might also explain why the authors decided not to include the (20
x 20) FJSSP instances in the experimental part, which would have
completed the comparison with the work in (Beck & Wilson, 2007).

Moreover, the in house comparison concerns a great deal of preparatory
material in the paper, and it is inevitable to notice a certain
imbalance between the "weights" of the two experimental parts.

For all the above reasons, the reviewer suggests to reduce the paper's
length. One possible way would be to choose between (1) the in house
performance analysis alone, or (2) (less viable, in the reviewer's
opinion) a performance comparison with existing work. That said, the
reviewer believes that this remains a rather valid work.

More in detail, what follows is a list of issues that according to the
reviewer should be clarified/modified/corrected in order to improve
the readability of the paper.

In Section 2.2 it seems a little dangerous to limit to Start-to-Start
time lags (pag. 5, line 6), or maybe this choice should be elaborated
more thoroughly by the authors. For instance, it should be given more
emphasis to the fact that POS chains are computed by means of
End-to-Start constraints, in order to keep the correspondence between
temporal feasibility and resource feasibility which characterizes the
POS, in case of duration variability. Alternatively, one might also
use Start-to-Start constraints for chaining, but it should be made
clearer that in order to correctly compute all uncertainty
realizations from a solution extracted from the POS without
reintroducing resource conflicts, the lower bound of the
Start-to-Start chaining constraints should correspond to the
antecedent activity's variable duration.

Related to the previous point, on page 6, section 2.2.2, line 5: there
is a delicate issue where it is stated that "...the definition of
feasibility is not the same as for deterministic RCPSP/max...". In the
reviewer's understanding, the fact that durational uncertainty may
raise the probability of maximum time lag violations does not entail
that the feasibility definition is overruled. From the temporal
feasibility standpoint (the only feasibility we are interested at,
since any POS guarantees that any resource feasible solution is also
temporally feasible), the same definition provided at page 5 line 7
still holds. If POSs are correctly synthesized, for any Ai -> Aj pair
in each chain, an increase in Ai's duration beyond Tij^{max} indeed
entails a violation of the Tij^{max} constraint between Ai's and Aj's
start times, thus making the previous temporal feasibility definition
still valid. The authors should clarify this point better.

Analyzing the schedule infeasibility issue, the authors re-direct the
reader to Section 4.1. Here, the right hand side of equation (51)
probably requires a missing comma between the two elements of the
"max" function. More importantly, it is a little hard to understand
the real need to specify the probability of POS infeasibility (IPr) if
such expression is apparently never used again in the paper. The
reviewer tends to believe that the whole issue of probability of POS
infeasibility is can be disregarded as not at all central w.r.t. to
the paper's scope.

The work [RasconiEtAl, 2010] (pages 8, 24 and 37) somehow seems
unproperly cited. The alternative chaining methods the authors
specifically refer to are actually proposed in [PolicellaEtAl, 2009:
Solve-and-Robustify. Synthesizing Partial Order Schedules by Chaining
- Journal of Scheduling, 12(3):299-314]. Nevertheless, the
correspondence between the reviewed paper and [RasconiEtAl, 2010] lies
in the strong similarity of the problem tackled in both works; in
[RasconiEtAl, 2010] the authors analyze schedule robustness against
various types of exogenous events (among which durational uncertainty)
following a deterministic approach, while the authors tackle the
makespan minimization problem under durational uncertainty conditions
with a probabilistic approach.

On page 5, there are more complete and exact formalizations than
equation (5) to formalize the schedule's resource feasibility
condition. For instance, the sum range for t [st(ai) <= t <= et(ai)]
can be misleading. The authors are invited to modify the mathematical
formalization.

The Robust local search algorithm (Section 5, pag. 19) is not
sufficiently explained. The auhors provide the algorithm pseudocode on
pag. 21, yet, a more thorough description of the pseudocode lines
(e.g., based on the algorithm line numbering) would provide great
help; especially, a clearer explanation of the basic local search on
the neighborhood set of activity lists would be necessary. The robust
local search algorithm is only lightly commented on pag. 20, where
there exist some unclear points. For instance, the authors say that
the scheduling solutions are coded in terms of activity lists and that
the maximum time lags are disregarded not to incur in unfeasible early
start time schedules after the start time assignment process. But
then, the authors claim that "... we will instead assign [each
activity] starting time by randomly picking a time from its domain of
feasible start times."; this last step sounds very puzzling, as
picking up random values from the domain of feasible start times for
each activity, does not guarantee at all to return a temporally
feasible solution. Why this random choice should return a higher
number of feasible schedules w.r.t. the earliest start time choice,
should be better clarified, especially when the maximum time lags are
ignored.

Moreover: since maximum time lags are disregarded, is there a point in
the procedure where they are reconsidered? In the positive case,
where?

The Improved Chaining based on Robustness Feedback is also not
sufficiently explained. The reader is mainly left with a brief verbal
description of the new chaining procedure and a pseudocode algorithm
in Figure 5, where the latter is not commented at all. Moreover,
algorithm 1 on pag. 21 and the pseudocode presented on pag. 24 are
outlined in different fonts and styles. While this is of secondary
importance, tidiness of exposition would impose style uniformity.

The results from the experimental analysis are clearly explained and
do not necessitate further explanation. Only, it certainly would have
been interesting to know more about the reasons of the performance
drop exhibited in the comparison between SLA and GNLA for epsilon =
0.01 (Section 7.2, pag. 27).

One last remark about the experimental analysis concerns the data
reported in Table 2. By observing the data, it seems that the CB's
tendency to outperform G's performances is realized according to the
following schema:
1) the bigger the problem's size, the more G is outperformed by GB;
2) the greater the uncertainty level, the smaller the gap between G's
and CB's performances.

Do the authors agree? In the positive case, do they have a possible
explanation for the apparent regularity of this behavior?


For all the reasons explained above, the reviewer thinks that this
paper requires some rework to reach the JAIR quality standards. The
suggested major revision is related to a reduction of the paper's
overall scope and length by means of a careful selection among the
current topics, and a re-organization aiming at providing an overall
clearer description on some relevant aspects of the paper
contributions, e.g., the algorithms.


Minor issues:

On pag. 3, line 9: "Segregated Linear Approximation (SLR)" ->
"Segregated Linear Approximation (SLA)"

On pag. 7, line 7 from the bottom: "...based the number..." ->
"...based on the number..."

On pag. 8, line 5: "additivity" -> "activity"

On pag. 8, Example 3, line 4 from the bottom: "...that belongs..." ->
"...that belong..."

On pag. 8, Example 4, line 2: "When allocate..." -> "When
allocating..."

On pag. 9, Section 2.3, line 5 from the bottom: "min_{s}make(s)": is
it correct?

On page 12, Section 3.1: formulas (16), (17) and (18) are a repetition
of (6), (7) and (8) on page 10.

On page 18, Section 4, line 8: Maybe "adjustable fitness function"
should be here used instead of "robust fitness function"?

On pag. 19, Definition 3: F(x, z) should become S(x, z)

On page 20, point 3.: the coefficient v_{k}(x) has always been
represented as c_{k}(x) throughout the paper. Why this change?

On pag. 19, section 5, line 4: "Steps i, ii, v..." should be replaced
with "Steps 1., 2., 5., ..."

On pag. 22, last line: "Now, we describe the three steps..." -> "Now,
we describe the two steps..."

On pag. 25, Section 6.2: "Figure 1 shows..." should become "Figure 5
shows..."

On pag. 27, Section 7.2, line 27: "This difference..." -> It is not
clear to which difference the authors are referring to.

On pag. 33, Section 7.3, line 5: "Figure 7.3, ..." should be referring
to Figure 9 (a), (b), and (c), respectively.

English Language issues:

Pag. 10, first line: "...in which resource has..." -> "...in which
resources have..."

Pag. 11, Section 3, 2nd paragraph: "Any activity will either start
after end time of any activity ... or after end of multiple..." ->
"Any activity will either start after the end time of any activity
... or after the end of multiple..." ("the" articles are missing)

Pag. 20, line 15 from the bottom: "...possible start time based on the
its order..." -> "...possible start time based on the order..."

Pag. 22, line 1: "Define..." -> "We define..."

Pag. 23, line 7 from the bottom: "...the order a_{k} proceeds a_{l}
that wins..." -> "...the order a_{k} preceeds a_{l} wins..." (?)

Pag. 27, Section 7.2, line 17: "On the hand..." -> "On the other hand..."

--- Review #2 ---

Title: Robust Local Search for Solving RCPSP/max with Durational Uncertainty
Authors: Fu Na, Lau Hoong Chuin, Pradeep Varakantham and Xiao Fei

Overall evaluation:
===================

[ ] Accept as is
[ ] Accept with minor revisions
[X] Reject with encouragement to resubmit
[ ] Reject

Comments and suggestions for the authors:
=========================================

The article addresses a challenging topic: producing robust schedules
with some robustness guarantee for a quite complex scheduling problem
(RCPSP/max). This topic is very relevant to AI.

The structure of the article is fine, it starts with a good
introduction to the problem (both deterministic and stochastic
aspects) and of some of the tools that will be used (POS). Then
sections 3 and 4 present the estimation of the objective
function. Sections 5 and 6 describe the global meta-heuristic to solve
the problem and an experimental evaluation is provided in the end.

Some technical points should be clarified and there are also some
flaws that should be addressed (see below). I think the experimental
evaluation should be made stronger too. For these reason, I would
recommend the paper to be rejected but with a strong encouragement to
resubmit.

Technical soundness
-------------------

In description of GNLA, some parts of the reasoning to provide
upper-bounds on the expected value and variance of two general
distributions are not clear. So the technical soundness of this upper
bound formulation could be jeopardized. In particular:

* On page 15, given that E|z1-z2| <= sqrt( E (z1-z2)^2 ) it is not
clear how one derives from that the next inequality E|z1-z2| <=
sqrt( Var[z1] + Var[z2] + E (z1)^2 + E (z2)^2 ). And the argument
that "Since expected values for data perturbation can never be
negative during computation of robust fitness value" is also not
clear. Especially as here, proposition 1 is about general
distributions z1 and z2.

* On the top of page 16, it is not clear why: 1/4 Var[z1+z2+|z1-z2|]
<= 1/2 (Var[z1+z2] + Var|z1-z2|).

The two points above could probably be improved by providing some
additional explanations.

I have serious doubts about the fact the probability that a POS is
infeasible can be computed in a simple way as described in section
4.1.  Indeed, in the context of an RCPSP/max the feasibility of a POS
subsumes the feasibility of a POS within a given makespan value M as
one can always add a max delay arc of value M between the dummy
initial and final nodes. The resulting temporal network will be
feasible if and only if a there exists a feasible schedule with
makespan lower than M. Thus the problem of infeasibility of a POS has
the same complexity as the main problem addressed in the paper. This
point should be clarified.

Some other issues (less important I think):

- On page 15, eq 34: I think that in case of normally and identically
distributed distributions, the value of E[max{z1,z2,z3}] is
(3*sigma)/(2*sqrt(pi)) instead of (3*sigma)/(sqrt(2*pi))

- On page 17, there is a mistake in the computation of the number of
possible ways to group k parallel activities into a set of activity
pairs. It is much larger than k(k-1)/2, and grows exponentially with
k. For instance if k=2p, I think it is (2p)! / (p! * 2^p). In the
context of the article, anyway, this flaw has no impact because the
approach does not enumerate all these sets.

Experimental evaluation
-----------------------

The experiments on RCPSP/max problems show that in general GNLA
behaves better than SLA. That's an interesting piece of information
but the reason for that is not really analyzed. A precious additional
information would be to analyze how "tight" are the upper bounds
provided by both methods. For instance you could compare on the J30
problems like on figure 8, the gap between the actual epsilon-robust
makespan (measured by simulation on the POS) to the upper bound
computed by both GNLA and SLA. That would give an idea of the quality
*in absolute* of the two upper bounds.

Concerning the experiments on job-shop problems, as underlined in the
article, it is difficult to compare with CB because the objective
function is different. But it seems to me the approach could be
adapted quite easily to the minimization of the average makespan as
the estimation of the average makespan is already available so it
changes only the evaluation of the robust fitness function. It would
be interesting to have these results too.

Miscellaneous
-------------

It would be help to add a small section in the end of section 3 or in
section 4 that recaps the results and describes the algorithm for
computing the upper-bounds on expected value and variance of the
makespan (especially for GNLA) together with its complexity. It seems
that these values as well as the upper-bound on the epsilon-robust
makespan can be computed in linear time with the size of the POS, is
that true?

Detailed remarks
----------------

- Page 5: It is mentioned that relations start-to-end, end-to-end,
etc. can easily be transformed into relation start-to-start. That's
true in the deterministic case but in the stochastic case, I do not
see how to transform, let say and end-to-start relation into a
start-to-start one except for using stochastic time lags in the
constraints.

- Page 6: robustmakespan

- Page 13: Max of random variables: "Thus the adjustable variable Sk
has a mean": this is not the mean but an upper bound on the mean.

- Page 16: The transformation of formula 37 into formula 38 is true
only if E(z1) and E(z2) are non-negative. This is the case for
perturbations but here, the proposition 2 is supposed to hold for
any general distribution.

- Page 17: "Instead we are trying to provide a good grouping technique
...": you should explain a little bit more in detail why the
proposed grouping is expected to be a good one.

- Page 23, section 6.1.1: "... has all the activity lists that are
_there_ T, except ..."

- Page 26, section 7.1.1: As the durations need to be non-negative,
the perturbation zi = N(0,sigma) cannot be lower than -d0 so it is
somehow truncated. How this truncation is handled? is it just
neglected in the computation of the fitness function?

- Page 33: There is a problem with the figure labels (Figure 7.3)





--- Review #3 ---

Recommendation: Accept with minor revisions

This paper presents a local search algorithm for solving RCPSP/max
problems with durational uncertainty, where the uncertainty can be
characterized by a normal or uniform distribution. The approach
formulates an objective function for the local search algorithm based
on the notion of robust makespan. Two decision rule approximations of
activity start times are presented and compared experimentally.

The paper appears to be technically sound and the problem studied is
an important one. I have a couple of minor concerns about the paper
which I would like to see addressed before publication in a journal.

1. It is stated in the paper that the goal of the research is
"concerned with robust scheduling which focusses on obtaining
proactive schedules that maintain a high level of performance
against uncertainty". The most commonly used technique for dealing
with uncertainty in practice is to generate an initial optimal
schedule (e.g. for makespan) then reschedule locally as various
types of uncertainty disrupt the schedule. There are a number of
simple rules for scheduling given the makespan objective e.g. right
shift, or some form of local reoptimization. Given the additional
data requirements of the proposed approach, I think it needs to be
demonstrated that it can outperform existing reactive techniques in
some way if it is going to be adopted in a real system.

2. The abstract states that the goal of the research is to develop
scalable techniques for scheduling with durational
uncertainty. This is not demonstrated in the experimental
section. The problems studied are quite small and no CPU timings
are given.

Some minor comments:

Page 5, eqn. 5, only defined for one resource, shouldn't this be over
all resources?

Page 10, meaning of sigma_p, sigma_m not explained, although can be
deduced.

Figure 7, axes not labelled.
