Title: Encoding Domain Transitions for Constraint-Based Planning
Authors: Nina Ghanbari Ghooshchi (nina.ghanbari@griffithuni.edu.au), Majid Namazi, M.A. Hakim Newton and Abdul Sattar
Paper number: 5059 
Abstract follows below
---------------------------------------------------- 

Abstract: We describe a constraint-based automated planner named Transition Constraints for Parallel Planning (TCPP). TCPP constructs its constraint model from the domain transition graphs (DTG) of a given planning problem. TCPP encodes state transitions in the DTGs by using table constraints with cells containing don’t cares or wild cards. TCPP uses Minion the constraint solver to solve the constraint model and returns the parallel plan. We empirically compare TCPP with the current state-of-the-art constraint-based parallel planner PaP2. PaP2 encodes action successions in state transition automata as table constraints with cells containing sets of values and uses SICStus Prolog as its constraint solver. Our experiments on a number of standard planning benchmark domains demonstrate TCPP’s efficiency over PaP2. We also model PaP2-style action succession constraints from DTGs and encode them using table constraints with don’t cares. This new planning system named PaPr ru!
 nning on M
inion significantly improves over PaP2.

---------------------------------------------------- 

Please see below the answers provided by the authors(s) for the JAIR questionnaire required for all submissions:

List up to four keywords/key phrases from your paper from the following list:

planning, constraint satisfaction, search

Please state in no more than 150 words why your work is important to other researchers in Artificial Intelligence and how they could make use of your results.

Automated planning is an important research area in Artificial Intelligence. Automated planning is addressed by using a number of techniques such as heuristic search, partial-order planning, via satisfiability, and via constraint-satisfaction. In this paper, we describe our state-of-the-art constraint-based planner and compare it with other constraint-based planners, heuristic search planners, and satisfiability based planners. This paper describes a new constraint-based encoding for planning and explores different combinations of constraint-models, constraint-solvers, and selection heuristics to study their interaction. Researchers interested in constraint-based automated planning will use our results to further advance the area.

Please list 1 - 3 papers previously published in JAIR that are closest to your work, and explain in no more than 150 words how your work differs from those papers.

A huge number of papers on automated planning and automated planners have been published in JAIR. Our paper describes a new constraint-based planner that uses a new encoding and outperforms existing constraint-based planners. We also compare our results with heuristic search planners and satisfiability based planners. Our paper has structural similarity with the papers listed below:

1. J. Hoffmann, B. Nebel, “The FF planning system: Fast plan generation through heuristic search”, JAIR, 14 (2001), pp. 253–302.
2. Helmert, M., “The fast downward planning system”. JAIR, 26(2006), pp. 191–246.
3. Minh B. Do, Subbarao Kambhampati, “Sapa: A Scalable Multi-Objective Metric Temporal Planner”,  JAIR, 20 (2003), pp. 155-194.
4. A. Coles, A. Smith, “Marvin, A Heuristic Search Planner with Online Macro-Action Learning”, JAIR, 28(2007), pp. 119-156.
5. M. F. Rankooh, G. Ghassem-Sani, “ITSAT: An Efficient SAT-Based Temporal Planner”, JAIR, 53(2015), pp. 541-632.

If any part of this paper has been previously published, please state where and explain how the current paper differs.

A preliminary report of this work has been published in the Proceedings of the Twenty-Ninth National Conference on Artificial intelligence (AAAI 2015). In AAAI2015, we briefly introduced the planner and compared it with other constraint-based planners. In this paper, we have described the paper in greater detail, performed more extensive experimentation, implemented another constraint-based planner which reconstructs an existing planner but now performs a lot better with our new encoding. We have compared our results with the wining planners from different tracks of the international planning competition.

---------------------------------------------------- 

Notes: A preliminary report of this work has been published in the Proceedings of the Twenty-Ninth National Conference on Artificial intelligence (AAAI 2015):

N. G. Ghooshchi, M. Namazi, M. H. Newton, A. Sattar, "Transition constraints for parallel planning". In Proceedings of the Twenty-Ninth National Conference on Artificial intelligence (AAAI 2015).



