Manuscript Number: CONS213
Title: Optimal Methods for Resource Allocation and Scheduling - A Cross-Disciplinary Survey
Authors: Michele Lombardi and Michela Milano



Recommendation: Accept subject to minor revisions

Reviewer Blind Comments to Author:

I find this survey on resource allocation and scheduling quite
thorough and very interesting and recommend the article for
publication subject to some minor revisions.

> Wrong claim about the model based on time intervals

In the description of the different models, I think there is a wrong
claim about the model with optional activities and time intervals:
"Note however this technique requires the introduction of an
exponential number of variables in case of independent resource
groups". In this type of model, the same interval variable "a" can be
the master of several alternative constraints. If to take the
example of the workers and factory rooms from Figure 1, one could
model an activity a that requires a worker of type r0 or r1 and 1 factory
room r2 or r3 as:

alternative(a, [a_r0, a_r1]);
alternative(a, [a_r2, a_r3]); 

where "a_ri" are optional interval variables representing the execution
of "a" on resource "ri".

This model does not require an exponential number of intervals.  If
needed, compatibility constraints can then be modeled by logical
constraints (example: presenceOf(a_r0)=>presenceOf(a_r2)).

Of course, another way to model is to create one optional interval for
each element of the cartesian product of the different types of
resources. This model is indeed exponential and it is interesting only
if the number of possible configurations is not too large, typically
when resources are very dependent from each other (this relates with
the notion of activity "mode").

An interest of optional interval variables is to allow for both types
of models.  I think this part of the paper should be changed, it is
mentioned twice on pages 6 and 7.

> Additional interesting papers on the topic

It would be interesting to consider some of the following studies in
the review. These papers deal with models involving scheduling and
resource allocation.

1. Scheduling of landing of aircrafts on several runways (includes
runway allocation)

A. T. Ernst, M. Krishnamoorthy, and R. H. Storer. Heuristic and exact
algorithms for scheduling aircraft landings. Networks, 34(3):229-241,
1999.

A. T. Ernst, M. Krishnamoorthy. Algorithms for Scheduling Aircraft
Landings. 2001.

2. Resource allocation in the context of audit scheduling problems

Peter Brucker, Doris Schumacher. A new tabu search procedure for an
audit-scheduling problem. Journal of Scheduling, 2: 157-173, 1999.

3. Flexible jobshop (machine allocation)

Mastrolilli M., Gambardella L.M. , (1998) "Effective Neighborhood
Functions for the Flexible Job Shop Problem", Journal of Scheduling,
Volume 3, Issue 1, 2000. Pages: 3-20

4. Multi Skill Project Scheduling Problem (manpower allocation)

C. Pessan, O. Bellenguez-Morineau, E. Neron. Multi-skill Project
Scheduling Problem and Total Productive Maintenance. Proceedings MISTA
2007.

5. Oversubscribed scheduling problem with resource allocation

L. A. Kramer and L. V. Barbulescu and S. F. Smith. Understanding
Performance Tradeoffs in Algorithms for Solving Oversubscribed
Scheduling. Proceedings AAAI 2007.

6. Vehicle allocation in Routing problems

Vehicle routing problems often involve a vehicle allocation
component. And some of these problems are at the frontier between
routing and scheduling. For instance Capacitated Vehicle Routing
Problem with Time Windows.

> Other remarks

p4: "the most common problem objective is the makespan". Well, that is
true for academical problems but in industrial applications tardiness
and allocations costs often play a more important role.

p10: In "Other Objective Functions" you mention weighted
tardiness. May be this type of cost should better fit in section 2.5.1
in "Time Based Objectives" ?

p13: section 3.2. The last sentence is surprising. Usually one uses a
cumulative model (sometimes as a redundant constraint on top of the
alternatives) precisely because it allows a stronger propagation while
actual resource assignment is still not performed. The sentence seems
to suggest the opposite.

In the references, I think the date for paper [76] (Kwok) is 1996
rather than 2002.

> Typos

p2: appraoches
p3: while am overview
p9: aplpied
p9: rather then
p18: Statc bounding


Reviewer Confidential Comments to Editor:
