Title: Designing Noise-Minimal Rotorcraft Trajectories
Author(s): Robert A. Morris, K. Brent Venable, Jim Lindsey

Recommendation: Reject

Relevance

The paper is about generating noise-minimal trajectories for
rotorcrafts. Although this is a very relevant problem in general, it
is quite far from the focus of the workshop on space-based
applications.

Significance 

The work is at an early stage and at that point, it is still difficult
to assess its significance. The general approach using local search on
top of a simulation program clearly makes sense but its current
implementation is still quite limited and many questions are left open.

- For instance in the current settings, the search space seems to be
tiny. If the 6 nodes of the box pattern are fixed, there are 6!  ways
to rearrange the decreases in speed and 6!  ways to rearrange the
decreases in altitude.  Thus the consistent trajectory space is around
500000 consistent trajectories out of which, I guess, many are
trivially not flyable because of either deceleration or angle of
descent constraints. It would be interesting to see the size of the
flyable trajectory space (it can be computed by brute force).

- Also, I would naively tend to think, given the fixed nodes and
limited number of possible decrease speed/altitude values that the
noise minimization tends to be achieved when the rotorcraft
decelerates as early as possible and descends as late as possible
(while of course respecting the deceleration and angle of descent
constraints). In general, it could be interesting to evaluate some
heuristics (or some approximation or maybe even some sorts of lower
bound on the solution score) that could help the LS to traverse
promising solutions and avoid the (expensive) scoring of clearly bad
trajectories.

- As I understand, the computational cost of the approach is mainly on
the simulation side for computing the score of a trajectory. Then, on
the algorithm on Figure 5, I do not understand why even some unflyable
trajectories are scored. If as I imagine, it is because the space of
flyable trajectories is quite unconnected with respect to the
neighborhood, then given the small size of the space of flyable
trajectories, one could compute other neighborhoods/distance function
directly on explicit flyable trajectories and have the LS traverse
this topology. Following on this idea, even if the search space of
flyable trajectories would be large, did you try neighborhoods that
directly traverse this space, even if it is not defined in extension?

Technical soundness

The paper is technically sound. 

Theorem 1 is quite straightforward and the proof could be omitted. 

Novelty

The use of LS with simulation techniques to score solutions is not new
but its application in the context of noise-minimal trajectory is
original and certainly a good idea.

Quality of Evaluation

The evaluation is not very informative. One sees that the search
quickly converges to a local optimum but it is difficult to see how
far it is from the global one. Also, the choice of the significant
improvement objective function should be better motivated because it
does not make any difference between an improvement of 1.5dB and a
much larger improvement.

Clarity

The paper is clearly written and well organized. 

Note that at first reading, I confound the notions of consistency and
flyability for a trajectory in Theorem 1 and could not understand how
the move ensures the resulting trajectory is flyable (it does not of
course). These two notions are clearly defined in the previous section
but maybe you could just underline around Theorem 1 that the move does
not ensure flyability.

Overall

This paper treats an interesting topic and approaches it with relevant
techniques. But it is very early work. If the paper would better fit
the conference topic I would recommend it for a poster but the fit
with IWPSS is not clear.
