Recommendation:
  Acceptable without revision
  Minor revision
  Major revision *
  Reject
  

Reviewer Blind Comments to Author

Although there has been some papers on using CP techniques for solving assembly line balancing problems in the past, I think the idea to present some CP models for interesting extensions of the problem and assessing their performance compared to other exact approaches like ILP is very interesting. Note that some references to recent work in CP for assembly line balancing could be included, see for instance [1].

[1] Pierre Schaus and Yves Deville. "A Global Constraint for Bin-Packing with Precedences: Application to the Assembly Line Balancing Problem". Proc. AAAI 2008.

I think that the experimental section should be more extensive. In its current state, it only deals with a few instances, selected (it is not explained how) from a classical benchmark and extended by adding some additional constraints (it is not explained how these additional constraints were generated). Given that both the CP model and the ILP model are quite straightforward, I think that the experimental section should bring more value, otherwise I find the contribution of the paper a bit weak for a journal like RAIRO.

There seems to be existing available instances with most of the extensions proposed in the present paper, for instance: http://assembly-line-balancing.mansci.de/aralbp/.
So I would suggest to compare the ILP model and the CP model more extensively on this benchmark. This does not prevent additionally generating your own instances if you think the existing benchmarks are missing some important features of real problems but then I think you should work with more instances and explain in detail how existing instances are modified. Furthermore, in the manuscript, the selected instances are small enough so that most of them are solved to optimality by one of the two approaches, and the real-life problem is very small too. It would be interesting to address larger problems (and there are many on the above assembly line balancing web page) and see how the two approaches compare in term of "best solution found" even when no optimality proof can be provided. 

An additional comparison of the CP approach against existing meta-heuristics may be interesting too (but not necessarily required if you really want to focus on exact algorithms), even if it is not completly fair to compare a generic purpose exact algorithm against a problem-specific meta-heuristic.

Also, if possible, it would be interesting to re-run the experiments with a more recent version of the CPLEX and CP Optimizer optimization engines (V12.6 is more than 3 years old, last version is V12.7.1 and both engines have been improved since then).

In section 3.1, the description of how CP in general (and CP Optimizer in particular) works is a bit naive. Of course I understand you cannot describe all the details in this type of article that is focused on a particular type of problem but I think you should at least say that the CP search is not *only* tree search and constraint propagation. What is currently described in the paper more or less corresponds to the "DepthFirst" search type in CP Optimizer and I suppose this type of strategy does not work well on these assembly line balancing problems (it does not work well on any problem actually). I suppose that the main reason for the efficiency of CP Optimizer on this type of problem is the automatic search that uses a mix of random restarts, large-neighborhood search, variable and value selection based on impact measurements, no-good learning, etc. See for instance https://www.slideshare.net/PaulShawIBM/cp-optimizer-may2013. I think these additional ingredients of the search should at least be mentioned.

It is also not completely clear that a drawback of CP compared to ILP is the memory usage. In general (and this is the case in your models), a CP model has less (and sometimes really much less) variables than an ILP model, so in the end, a CP model can use much less memory than an equivalent ILP model. Maybe it could be interesting to also give some figures about the memory usage of the two approaches in your experiments?

In the description of the CP model, it is not explicitly said how some constraints are formulated. In particular how do you formulate constraint (5) ? Are you using a 'pack' constraint to pack the tasks into the different stations ? (that would be the most efficient I think).

Some more detailed comments/typos (in general I think the english should be improved):

Abstract: defence manufacturing industry
p2: equipped [with] respect to
p6: 51,57]in supply chain (missing space)
p8: can be defined [as] branch-and-propagate
p13: by modifying [the] proposed CP model

To summarize, my recommendation is that the manuscript is acceptable provided some major revisions are made in order to extend the experimental section by working more with existing benchmarks, on more instances and in particular larger ones. The other questions I mention in my review can easily be addressed.
Reviewer Confidential Comments to Editor

