Hello Philippe,

This would be great! Please find the paper attached. Here are the official instructions:

Please send your review by electronic mail to Andrey.Kolobov@gmail.com and CC a copy to jair-ed@isi.edu by July, 2. Please include in your review your overall evaluation of the paper ("accept as is," "accept with minor revisions," "reject with encouragement to resubmit," or "reject"). Normally we will not accept a paper if it requires major revisions. In addition to your overall evaluation for the editor, please also include comments and suggestions for the authors.


Articles published in JAIR must meet the highest quality standards, as measured by originality and significance of the contribution. There is no minimum or maximum length for papers, but shorter papers are preferred. JAIR's review policies are outlined in more detail in our editorial charter: http://www.jair.org/charter.html

 

Best,

 

 

Andrey

 

From: Philippe Laborie <laborie@fr.ibm.com>
Sent: Thursday, May 17, 2018 1:59 AM
To: Andrey Kolobov <akolobov@microsoft.com>
Subject: Re: JAIR review request (submission 5925)

 

Hello Andrey,
The paper is a bit at the border of my area of expertise but I'm interested in reviewing it.
So, if it is ok, I'll be happy to review it.
Philippe






From:        Andrey Kolobov <akolobov@microsoft.com>
To:        "laborie@fr.ibm.com" <laborie@fr.ibm.com>
Date:        15/05/2018 19:09
Subject:        JAIR review request (submission 5925)




Dear Philippe,
 
 
The Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research (JAIR) has just received a submission titled “Watching and Acting Together: Concurrent Plan Recognition and Adaptation for Human-Robot Teams". The abstract is appended at the end of this email. Given your interest in temporal reasoning and plan/schedule execution, I think you could provide a valuable, well-informed opinion about this work. Would you be willing to review it?
 
JAIR is committed to a relatively rapid publication cycle, so this review would need to be completed by July, 2. I certainly hope that you are interested and willing to review this paper, but please accept only if you can complete the review by this deadline. If you feel that you are currently too busy, or you are not interested in reviewing the paper, we will find another reviewer.
 
I look forward to your response!
 
Thanks,
 
 
Andrey Kolobov
Associate Editor
 
------------------------
 
 
Abstract: There is huge demand for robots to work alongside humans in heterogeneous teams. To achieve a high degree of fluidity, robots must be able to (1) recognize their human co-worker's intent, and (2) adapt to this intent accordingly, providing useful aid as a teammate. The literature to date has made great progress in these two areas -- recognition and adaptation -- but largely as separate research activities. In this work, we present a unified approach to these two problems, in which recognition and adaptation occur concurrently and holistically within the same framework. We introduce Pike, an executive for human-robot teams, that allows the robot to continuously and concurrently reason about what a human is doing as execution proceeds, as well as adapt appropriately. The result is a mixed-initiative execution where humans and robots interact fluidly to complete task goals.
 
Key to our approach is our task model: a contingent, temporally-flexible team-plan with explicit choices for both the human and robot. This allows a single set of algorithms to find implicit constraints between sets of choices for the human and robot (as determined via causal link analysis and temporal reasoning), narrowing the possible decisions a rational human would take (hence achieving intent recognition) as well as the possible actions a robot could consistently take (hence achieving adaptation). Pike makes choices based on the preconditions of actions in the plan, temporal constraints, unanticipated disturbances, and choices made previously (by either agent).
 
Innovations of this work include (1) a framework for concurrent intent recognition and adaptation for contingent, temporally-flexible plans, (2) the generalization of causal links for contingent, temporally-flexible plans along with related extraction algorithms, and (3) extensions to a state-of-the-art dynamic execution system to utilize these causal links for decision making.
 
 
 