Title: A Maximal Tractable Class of Soft Constraints 

Authors: David Cohen, Martin Cooper, Peter Jeavons and Andrei Krokhin

Abstract: 
Many optimization problems can be expressed using some form of soft constraints,
where different measures of desirability are associated with different combinations
of domain values for specified subsets of variables. In this paper we
identify a class of soft binary constraints for which the problem of finding the optimal
solution is tractable. In other words, we show that for any given set of such
constraints, there exists a polynomial time algorithm to determine the assignment
having the best overall combined measure of desirability. This tractable class includes
many commonly-occurring soft constraints, such as “as near as possible” or
“as soon as possible after”, as well as crisp constraints such as “greater than”.

1. What is the original contribution of this work?

This paper establishes that a large class of soft constraints over an
arbitrary finite domain can be solved efficiently. We also show that the
class
is maximal, in the sense that allowing any other single constraint makes the
problem NP-hard.

The paper also gives many examples of the kinds of constraints that can be
expressed in this tractable class.

2. Why should this contribution be considered important?

Constraint satisfaction has established itself as a popular framework for
expressing and
analysing search problems arising in artificial intelligence and elsewhere.
By extending the constraint satisfaction framework to allow soft constraints
one can considerably increase the expressive power of the framework, but at
the cost of increased computational complexity.

The paper uses powerful ideas from discrete optimization and operations
research, which have not
previously been used in this context, to identify a class of soft
constraints
which can be solved efficiently in this more powerful framework.
This work therefore extends the range of problems which can be effectively
solved in the constraint satisfaction framework.

3. What is the most closely related work by others and how does this work
differ?

The general framework of soft constraints has been developed by Schiex,
Bistarelli, Rossi, Verfaillie and others (see, for example, reference 2 in
the paper). Very little work has yet been done on computational complexity,
except for certain types of soft constraint on a Boolean domain, which have
been explored in detail by Creignou and others (see reference 3). The only
other paper identifying tractable soft constraints that we are aware of is
reference 11 in the paper, but this is specifically concerned with temporal
constraints (which have an infinite domain and a different valuation
structure).

The complexity of classical (crisp) constraints has been considered by many
authors, including Montanari, Vardi, Jonsson, Dalmau, van Beek, Gyssens and
Bulatov. (See, for example, references 5, 8, 12, 19).

To obtain our tractability results, we make use of the idea of a submodular
function, as developed by the Operations Research community. The
complexity of submodular function minimization has recently been the subject
of considerable interest, and a variety of polynomial-time algorithms have
been obtained for this problem by Iwata, Fleischer, Schrijver and others
(see references 7 and 17). By restricting our attention in this paper to
submodular functions expressible using binary constraints, we are able to
develop a much more efficient algorithm for the particular soft constraint
satisfaction problem that we are concerned with.

4. How can other researchers make use of the results of this work?

The algorithms for decomposing and solving collections of soft constraints
lying in our tractable class are given in sufficient detail to enable other
researchers to develop software tools for handling problems expressed using
such constraints.

We also believe that this paper lays the foundation for a systematic study
of the computational complexity of soft constraints.

5. If any part of this work has been submitted elsewhere, please state where
it has been submitted and how it differs from this paper.

An earlier version has been accepted for IJCAI'03, but that version is only
6 pages long and omits, in particular, most of the proofs.
