Title: Planning/Scheduling with CP Optimizer

Abstract:

CP Optimizer is a generic system, largely based on CP, to model and solve real-world combinatorial optimization problems with a particular focus on planning and scheduling applications.

It provides an algebraic language with simple mathematical concepts (such as intervals, sequences or functions) to capture the temporal dimension of planning and scheduling problems in a combinatorial optimization framework. CP Optimizer implements a model-and-run paradigm that vastly reduces the burden on the user to understand CP or scheduling algorithms: modeling is by far the most important.

The automatic search integrates a large panel of techniques from Artificial Intelligence (constraint programming, temporal reasoning, learning, ...) and Operations Research (mathematical programming, graph algorithms, local search, ...) into an exact algorithm that provides good performance out of the box and is continuously improving.

This tutorial gives an overview of CP Optimizer for planning and scheduling: typical applications, modeling concepts with examples, ingredients of the automatic search, tools and performance.



Bio:

Philippe Laborie is a Principal Scientist at IBM. He is one of the main designers of the mathematical modeling language for scheduling problems offered in CPLEX Optimization Studio and a significant contributor to the underlying automatic search algorithm.

He graduated from Telecom ParisTech in 1992, and received a PhD in Artificial Intelligence from LAAS/CNRS (Toulouse) on the integration of Artificial Intelligence Planning and Scheduling in 1995.

Before joining IBM/ILOG in 1998, he worked at Electricité de France (Paris) and INRIA/IRISA (Rennes) on the Supervision and Diagnosis of complex systems (telecommunication and power distribution networks).

His main scientific interests include planning, scheduling, supervision and diagnosis of complex systems and more generally, all decision problems dealing with time. He received the 2011 ICAPS Influential paper award. Philippe is member of the editorial board of the Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research and serves in the Program Committee of many conferences in AI (IJCAI, AAAI, ECAI, ICAPS, CP, CPAIOR, ...).





Industrial Size Job Shop Scheduling
Tackled by Present Day CP Solvers
Giacomo Da Col and Erich C. Teppan(B)

Training Binarized Neural Networks
Using MIP and CP
Rodrigo Toro Icarte1,2(B), Le´on Illanes1, Margarita P. Castro3,
Andre A. Cire4, Sheila A. McIlraith1,2, and J. Christopher Beck3

Scheduling of Mobile Robots Using
Constraint Programming
Stanislav Mur´ın(B) and Hana Rudov´

Decomposition and Cut Generation
Strategies for Solving Multi-Robot
Deployment Problems
Adriana Pacheco(B), C´edric Pralet, and St´ephanie Roussel
