Overall evaluation
==================

Reject with encouragement to resubmit

Comments and suggestions
========================

The article is an extended version of a previous paper published at ICAPS-2010.
It describes in detail a complete algorithm for solving the Job-Shop scheduling problem.
It is largely based on an earlier algorithm by P. Brucker (1994). The two main contributions of the article are:
- The use of depth-first search (DFS) (with an explicit expansion of all the children of a search node before committing to a particular node) instead of chronological backtracking search (which only expands a single child), and
- A heuristic to provide lower bounds and guide the search in this context
Those contributions are evaluated and compared with the original algorithm in a computational study.

Individually, those two ideas are not new: DFS is a classical search strategy and the proposed heuristic is a classical form of shaving on the cost function values. But to the best of my knowledge, these two ideas have never been considered in conjunction with specific job-shop problem branching schemes like Brucker's algorithm. The added value of those techniques on top of Brucker's algorithm are well demonstrated by the experimental study.

A weakness of the article is that it only compares with the results of the original Brucker's algorithm. Since 1994, there has been quite a lot of progress on the resolution of the job-shop problem and the authors should give an idea of the absolute performance of the presented approach. The best would probably be to provide the lower and upper bounds found by their approach on each individual instance. The point here is not necessarily to show that the proposed approach outperforms the state-of-the-art (especially as far as upper-bounds are concerned, it is probably clear that the complete algorithm described here will hardly beat incomplete meta-heuristic search approaches) but that it is reasonably close.

The section related with constraint propagation (5.5) does not give any idea about the complexity of this process beside the fact it can be computed in polynomial time, which is not really informative from a practical point of view. What is the complexity of this step? The material in this section is closely related to the edge-finding algorithms. More recent approaches than the ones cited in this section allow performing this propagation as well as additional ones (like the so called NotFirst/NotLast) in O(n log(n)), see [1]. Furthermore, it is not clear in this section if the procedure ImmediateSelection is called until it reaches a fix point or not. The text mentions that "in principle" it should be repeated but the next sentence starting with "however" does not state anything that seems in contradiction with reaching a fix point.

[1] P. Vilim. "Global Constraints in Scheduling", PhD thesis. Charles University in Prague, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Department of Theoretical Computer Science and Mathematical Logic, 2007.

The structure of the paper should be improved. In what appears to be the main section of the paper (section 5), it is hard to separate what is part of the original Brucker's algorithm and known constraint propagation algorithms from the actual contribution of the paper. Furthermore, section 4 entitled "Brucker's Algorithm" is quite minimalistic. I would suggest to describe original Brucker's algorithm in adequate details in section 4 and, then in section 5 to focus on the original contribution of the paper concerning DFS.

I encourage the authors to resubmit an improved version of the paper by working on the following aspects:
- improve the structure and the readability of the paper. In particular, make clearer in the detailed description of the approach what belongs to previous work (Brucker's algorithm) and what is original.
- improve the description of the propagation techniques used in the proposed approach: algorithmic complexity, reasons why some propagation techniques were used while others were not (implementation issues may be a perfectly valid reason)
- improve the experimental section by providing some results to assess how the proposed approach compares with more recent results on the job-shop problem

Some detailed comments:

p7, typo: "denotes the the"

p11: notations: sets of predecessors are denoted DP (on the machines) and PJ on the jobs. It would be more readable to have both notations either starting with P (PD/PJ) or finishing with P (DP/JP)

p12: in the end of the page, in the description of the additional disjunctive arcs to avoid exploring already explored part of the search space, it would help to first informally describe what these arcs do (they fix the first and last operations of already explored blocks).
 
p22: I think Taillard's instances of size 20x15 are ta11-20 and not ta01-10. ta01-10 are 15x15 problems.

