Title:	Solving the Test Laboratory Scheduling Problem with Variable Task Grouping
Number: #163

Evaluation

Significance / Importance.
* Does the paper contribute a major breakthrough or an incremental advance? If the paper describes an application, is the application important?
 3: substantial contribution or strong impact
 2: modest contribution or average impact
 1: minimal contribution or weak impact

2

Soundness.
* Is the technical development accurate? Does the paper present convincing evidence that supports their claims?
 3: correct
 2: minor inconsistencies or small fixable errors
 1: major errors

2

Novelty.
* Is the research approach described novel? For an application paper, is the application novel?
 3: novel - approach and/or application are new and only a few other similar approaches and/or applications exist
 2: moderate - approach and/or application have been developed before, but significant improvements are presented
 1: marginal - only parts of the application and/or approach are new

2

Scholarship.
* Is related work cited and discussed?
 3: excellent coverage of related work
 2: relevant literature cited but could be expanded
 1: important related work missing, or mischaracterizes prior research

3

Clarity.
* Is the paper clearly organized and clearly written? Does the submission make explicit claims about the capabilities or behavior of the approach?
 3: well organized and well written
 2: mostly readable with some room for improvement
 1: hard to follow

2

Technology Readiness Level.
* How would you characterize the Technology Readiness Level of the contribution
 9: Actual system proven through successful mission operations
 8: Actual system completed and qualified through test and demonstration
 7: System prototype demonstration in an operational environment
 6: System/subsystem model or prototype demonstration in a relevant environment
 5: Component and/or breadboard validation in relevant environment
 4: Component and/or breadboard validation in laboratory environment
 3: Analytical and experimental critical function and/or characteristic proof of concept
 2: Technology concept and/or application formulated
 1: Basic principles observed and reported
 0: N/A - not applicable

7

Reproducibility.
* Can the work be reproduced or verified based on the paper and any supporting information or data?
 5: code and domains (whichever apply) are already publicly available
 4: authors promise to release code and domains (whichever apply)
 3: authors describe the implementation and domains in sufficient detail
 2: some details missing but still appears to be replicable with some effort
 1: difficult to reproduce because of missing detail
 0: N/A - nothing to reproduce

2

Suitability for Special Track.
* Is the paper suitable to the track it was submitted to
 12: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Almost all focus is on humans
 11: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Almost all focus is on robotics
 10: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Almost all focus is on planning
 9: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Good balance between planning and robotics
 8: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Almost all focus is on learning
 7: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Almost all focus is on planning
 6: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Good balance between planning and learning
 5: Special Track on Knowledge Engineering, Integrated Execution, and System Architectures - Does not describe a knowledge engineering approach or system architecture.
 4: Special Track on Knowledge Engineering, Integrated Execution, and System Architectures - Describes an innovative knowledge engineering approach/aspect
 3: Special Track on Knowledge Engineering, Integrated Execution, and System Architectures - Describes a general system architecture that incorporates both planning and plan execution
 2: Novel Applications - Planning & Scheduling are not Important for the Application
 1: Novel Applications - Planning & Scheduling are Important for the Application
 0: N/A - submitted to the main track

1

Overall evaluation.
* Please provide an overall score.
 3: strong accept
 2: accept
 1: weak accept
 0: borderline paper
 -1: weak reject
 -2: reject
 -3: strong reject

Review.

1

* Detailed review. (Required)

The article presents an interesting real-world scheduling application in the context of project
scheduling in test laboratories (TLSP). The main contribution is an extension of the work presented in
(Geibinger, Mischek, and Musliu 2019b; 2019a) (TLSP-S) to the case where the contend of jobs is not known
in advance (in the present work jobs are defined as a set of individual tasks and part of the decisions
of the problem is to allocate tasks to jobs). The paper describes a pure CP representation of the
problem and proposes a Very Large Neighborhood Search (VLNS) on top of this model, showing in an experimental section
that the proposed VLNS outperforms the pure CP model and is even interesting for the initially studied
restricted version of the problem (TLSP-S).

The paper is in general well written and easy to read, but the description how tasks are grouped as
jobs should be clarified (section "Jobs and Grouping"). In particular:

- It is not clear whether jobs are a set of tasks that are executed together at the same time
  (so all tasks in a job would start at the start time of the job for instance), or a contiguous
  sequence of tasks (which is in fact what seems to be suggested by the fact the duration of a job
  is the sum of the duration of its tasks)

- Also, the introduction of this notion of job is in fact not really well justified. It seems to be some
  sort of technical concept due to the very coarse granularity of time (see comment "Among other things,
  this helps reuse test setups (as modeled by the setuptime) and reduces the rounding error when
  converting durationsto full time slots"): then why not using finer time granularity and directly
  model sequence dependent setup times of setup cost, as quite often done in scheduling problems?

- Also, why is a job constrained to use resources as its most demanding task ? Is it not
  over-constraining the problem and resulting in sub-optimal solutions?

A few more specific comments:

- p4, col1: the notation n_a for end times of jobs is not really common, I see that "e" is already
  used for employees, maybe you could use "c_a" for completion time?

- in the experimental section, it would be very useful to give an idea of the number of tasks in
  the instances, otherwise it is difficult to have an idea of the problem size
  








Reviewer's confidence.
* Reviewer's confidence
 4: (expert)
 3: (high)
 2: (medium)
 1: (low)

4

Suitable for a demo?.
* Suitable for a demo?
 3: yes
 2: maybe
 1: no

2

Nominate for Best Paper Award?.
* Nominate for Best Paper Award?
 [ ] yes

Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (assuming it is eligible) ?.
* Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (assuming it is eligible)?
 [ ] yes

Confidential remarks for the program committee. If you wish to add any remarks intended only for PC members please write them below. These remarks will only be seen by the PC members having access to reviews for this submission. They will not be sent to the authors. This field is optional.
