Title:	Dynamic Controllability and (J;K)-Resiliency in Generalized Constraint Networks with Uncertainty
Number: #59

Evaluation

Significance / Importance.
* Does the paper contribute a major breakthrough or an incremental advance? If the paper describes an application, is the application important?
 3: substantial contribution or strong impact
 2: modest contribution or average impact
 1: minimal contribution or weak impact

3

Soundness.
* Is the technical development accurate? Does the paper present convincing evidence that supports their claims?
 3: correct
 2: minor inconsistencies or small fixable errors
 1: major errors

3

Novelty.
* Is the research approach described novel? For an application paper, is the application novel?
 3: novel - approach and/or application are new and only a few other similar approaches and/or applications exist
 2: moderate - approach and/or application have been developed before, but significant improvements are presented
 1: marginal - only parts of the application and/or approach are new

3

Scholarship.
* Is related work cited and discussed?
 3: excellent coverage of related work
 2: relevant literature cited but could be expanded
 1: important related work missing, or mischaracterizes prior research

3

Clarity.
* Is the paper clearly organized and clearly written? Does the submission make explicit claims about the capabilities or behavior of the approach?
 3: well organized and well written
 2: mostly readable with some room for improvement
 1: hard to follow

2

Technology Readiness Level.
* How would you characterize the Technology Readiness Level of the contribution
 9: Actual system proven through successful mission operations
 8: Actual system completed and qualified through test and demonstration
 7: System prototype demonstration in an operational environment
 6: System/subsystem model or prototype demonstration in a relevant environment
 5: Component and/or breadboard validation in relevant environment
 4: Component and/or breadboard validation in laboratory environment
 3: Analytical and experimental critical function and/or characteristic proof of concept
 2: Technology concept and/or application formulated
 1: Basic principles observed and reported
 0: N/A - not applicable

0

Reproducibility.
* Can the work be reproduced or verified based on the paper and any supporting information or data?
 5: code and domains (whichever apply) are already publicly available
 4: authors promise to release code and domains (whichever apply)
 3: authors describe the implementation and domains in sufficient detail
 2: some details missing but still appears to be replicable with some effort
 1: difficult to reproduce because of missing detail
 0: N/A - nothing to reproduce

0

Suitability for Special Track.
* Is the paper suitable to the track it was submitted to
 12: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Almost all focus is on humans
 11: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Almost all focus is on robotics
 10: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Almost all focus is on planning
 9: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Good balance between planning and robotics
 8: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Almost all focus is on learning
 7: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Almost all focus is on planning
 6: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Good balance between planning and learning
 5: Special Track on Knowledge Engineering, Integrated Execution, and System Architectures - Does not describe a knowledge engineering approach or system architecture.
 4: Special Track on Knowledge Engineering, Integrated Execution, and System Architectures - Describes an innovative knowledge engineering approach/aspect
 3: Special Track on Knowledge Engineering, Integrated Execution, and System Architectures - Describes a general system architecture that incorporates both planning and plan execution
 2: Novel Applications - Planning & Scheduling are not Important for the Application
 1: Novel Applications - Planning & Scheduling are Important for the Application
 0: N/A - submitted to the main track

0

Overall evaluation.
* Please provide an overall score.
 3: strong accept
 2: accept
 1: weak accept
 0: borderline paper
 -1: weak reject
 -2: reject
 -3: strong reject

2

Review.

* Detailed review. (Required)

The article introduces the framework of Generalized Constraint Networks with Uncertainty (GCNU) that is a very expressive framework for modeling temporal and resource allocation problems with uncertainty. It also proposes and studies several types of dynamic controllability on top of GCNUs.

Beside the introduction of the framework and the different types of controlability, the contribution of the article is mostly theoretical (complexity results).

To the best of my knowledge, this work (both the GCNU framework and the different types of dynamic controlability) is very original. The proposed GCNU seems to be a very expressive framework, maybe it would be interesting to give additional use cases where it could be applied (including other types of variables than just tasks, and other types of constraints).

The presentation is fairly clear even if it could be improved (see a couple of suggestions below).


Detailed comments and typos:

- p1, col2: "This means that, depending on the observed uncontrollable events, we might decide to schedule the same tasks at different times or commit to them different resources". What about the case where the decision to execute a task or not is also subject to uncertainties? (like mentioned just below with the example of patient scheduling). How does the GCNU handle 'optional' or 'alternative' tasks or processes? Given that the framework relies on a predefined set of decision variables X. Or maybe this can be handled by specific values in the domain of variables? A bit like the notion of conditional / optional interval variables in scheduling problems (see [1])

[1] P. Laborie, J. Rogerie. Reasoning with Conditional Time-intervals. Proc. 21th International FLAIRS Conference (FLAIRS 2008).

- p3, col2: When it is introduced in the beginning of section 'Controllability and (J,K)-Resiliency', the notion of a generic mapping, or just a mapping m is not defined.

- p3, col2: "A pair (\alpha, \omega) satisfies F iff ..." : The structure of the definition is not very clear as it reads like "XXX iff ( AAA iff aaa, BBB iff bbb, ...)" whereas as far as I understand, the AAA, BBB are also some notations defined here.

- p4, col1: in the description of Phase 3: "... where x is the picked variable in Phase 2 (no matter by which player)."
: the "no matter by which player" sounds strange because in Phase 2, only Controller (not Nature) seems to be allowed to pick a variable.

- p5, col1: At first reading, it was not clear to me what was the difference between Game 2 and Game 3. It is true that the difference is clearly explained and emphasized in the statement that "If Nature strikes at some round, such values are “fictitiously” removed ***for that round only*** and will be available again in the next." but maybe the main difference should be explained a bit earlier.




Reviewer's confidence.
* Reviewer's confidence
 4: (expert)
 3: (high)
 2: (medium)
 1: (low)

2

Suitable for a demo?.
* Suitable for a demo?
 3: yes
 2: maybe
 1: no

1

Nominate for Best Paper Award?.
* Nominate for Best Paper Award?
 [ ] yes

Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (assuming it is eligible) ?.
* Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (assuming it is eligible)?
 [ ] yes

Confidential remarks for the program committee. If you wish to add any remarks intended only for PC members please write them below. These remarks will only be seen by the PC members having access to reviews for this submission. They will not be sent to the authors. This field is optional.

I must say that the topic of this paper is a bit out of my comfort zone for providing a solid review. I like the paper, the proposed framework seems to me very expressive and original, but I do not know very much the existing literature in the domain so my assessment of the originality of the ideas should be handled with care.
