Title:	Intelligent ALMM System - an ontology approach for its Knowledge Base component
Number: #83

Evaluation

Significance / Importance.
* Does the paper contribute a major breakthrough or an incremental advance? If the paper describes an application, is the application important?
 3: substantial contribution or strong impact
 2: modest contribution or average impact
 1: minimal contribution or weak impact

1

Soundness.
* Is the technical development accurate? Does the paper present convincing evidence that supports their claims?
 3: correct
 2: minor inconsistencies or small fixable errors
 1: major errors

 2

Novelty.
* Is the research approach described novel? For an application paper, is the application novel?
 3: novel - approach and/or application are new and only a few other similar approaches and/or applications exist
 2: moderate - approach and/or application have been developed before, but significant improvements are presented
 1: marginal - only parts of the application and/or approach are new

1

Scholarship.
* Is related work cited and discussed?
 3: excellent coverage of related work
 2: relevant literature cited but could be expanded
 1: important related work missing, or mischaracterizes prior research

1

Clarity.
* Is the paper clearly organized and clearly written? Does the submission make explicit claims about the capabilities or behavior of the approach?
 3: well organized and well written
 2: mostly readable with some room for improvement
 1: hard to follow

 2

Technology Readiness Level.
* How would you characterize the Technology Readiness Level of the contribution
 9: Actual system proven through successful mission operations
 8: Actual system completed and qualified through test and demonstration
 7: System prototype demonstration in an operational environment
 6: System/subsystem model or prototype demonstration in a relevant environment
 5: Component and/or breadboard validation in relevant environment
 4: Component and/or breadboard validation in laboratory environment
 3: Analytical and experimental critical function and/or characteristic proof of concept
 2: Technology concept and/or application formulated
 1: Basic principles observed and reported
 0: N/A - not applicable

3

Reproducibility.
* Can the work be reproduced or verified based on the paper and any supporting information or data?
 5: code and domains (whichever apply) are already publicly available
 4: authors promise to release code and domains (whichever apply)
 3: authors describe the implementation and domains in sufficient detail
 2: some details missing but still appears to be replicable with some effort
 1: difficult to reproduce because of missing detail
 0: N/A - nothing to reproduce

1

Suitability for Special Track.
* Is the paper suitable to the track it was submitted to
 12: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Almost all focus is on humans
 11: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Almost all focus is on robotics
 10: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Almost all focus is on planning
 9: Special Track on Humans and Robotics - Good balance between planning and robotics
 8: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Almost all focus is on learning
 7: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Almost all focus is on planning
 6: Special Track on Planning and Learning - Good balance between planning and learning
 5: Special Track on Knowledge Engineering, Integrated Execution, and System Architectures - Does not describe a knowledge engineering approach or system architecture.
 4: Special Track on Knowledge Engineering, Integrated Execution, and System Architectures - Describes an innovative knowledge engineering approach/aspect
 3: Special Track on Knowledge Engineering, Integrated Execution, and System Architectures - Describes a general system architecture that incorporates both planning and plan execution
 2: Novel Applications - Planning & Scheduling are not Important for the Application
 1: Novel Applications - Planning & Scheduling are Important for the Application
 0: N/A - submitted to the main track

0

Overall evaluation.
* Please provide an overall score.
 3: strong accept
 2: accept
 1: weak accept
 0: borderline paper
 -1: weak reject
 -2: reject
 -3: strong reject

-2

Review.

* Detailed review. (Required)

The paper presents an approach and a system to represent, maintain and query the different components
of some optimization problems expressed using the Algebraical-Logical Meta-Model (ALMM) in a knowledge base.

The contribution of the paper is not clear:

1- There seems to be many existing papers about the ALMM by Dudek-Dyduch et al, and it is not
clear at all what the current paper brings on top of these existing papers.

2- The ALMM framework seems to share many ideas in common with AI planning (which is one of the
 main topics of the ICAPS conference), with the notions of states, initial states, goal states,
 decisions (actions), sequence of states from initial state to goal state, ...
 I think, in the context of ICAPS, the paper should compare the ALMM framework with AI Planning frameworks.

3- The description of the ALMM framework is not clear. Even if the different elements are formally
 defined, it is not said how, in practice, the different sets (decisions, states) are declared by a user.
 Are these sets considered in extension? It is hardly possible as their size grows in general exponentially
 with the instance data (as illustrated by the simple one-machine scheduling problem).
 So it would be useful for instance to clarify what a user would have to write in order to define
 from scratch a particular optimization problem in the proposed framework. And in particular,
 how the general (instance independent) description of the problem is instantiated on the data of particular instances.

4- The relation between the problem representation in the ALMM framework and the resolution methods is
not described in the paper. How are the methods and the algorithms described in the proposed framework?
How are they connected exactly (beside the different boxes on Figure 1)

I think there are some wrong, or not justified statements in the paper. For instance that CLP (or CP) methods do not
work for optimization problems. For instance, as far as scheduling problems are concerned, the CP component
of ILOG CPLEX Optimization (mentioned by the authors) [1] is one example of declarative and general framework
(like MP) to represent scheduling problems that will be solved by an automatic search.

[1] P. Laborie, J. Rogerie, P. Shaw, P. Vilim. IBM ILOG CP Optimizer for Scheduling. Constraints journal 23(2), 210-250, 2018

As the ALMM framework really seems to be geared toward sequential decisions, I'm wondering how
non-sequential scheduling problems could be handled in this framework. For instance it would really be
interesting to see how you could handle the classical resource-constrained project scheduling problem (RCPSP) in this framework.

Detailed comments and typos
---------------------------


- p1, col2: I wonder what is meant by "the multi-job IBM system"

- p1, col2: "The second research direction includes new formal modeling methods and development of
  solvers (systems) of other types": this is a very vague definition for this "second" direction,
  it sounds like: the old way, and the new way ...

- p2, col1, section on ALMM definition: when first introduced at the beginning of the section,
  I would have expected some reference to paper formally defining this framework. Surprisingly,
  instead, the two provided references (Pandit et al. 2018) and (Ezugwu 2019) seem to have nothing
  to do with ALMM (the name is even not mentioned in these papers) and be specific meta-heuristics
  to solve specific optimization problems.

- p2, col1, then col2: there is a very long text between quotation marks, so it is quite hard to parse.
  And, as said above, the relation between ALMM and AI Planning should at least mentioned, and even better, analyzed.

- p3: the alpha|beta|gamma notation of the scheduling problems described in examples 1 and 2 is wrong.
  The optimization criterion Cmax denotes the makespan, whereas here you minimize the weighted completion
  time (sum w_j C_j) !

- p3, col2: as the number of states X grows exponentially, you should say how this is handled
  in the framework and in the resolution methods.

- p3, col2, example 2: "Let the function d : J -> R+ specify the *latest* deadlines for the
  completion of the individual jobs." Why *latest* ? the function just returns the deadline itself.

- p5, col2: I'm not sure the listing 1 brings any added value

- p6, col1, section "Considered scheduling problems": "... five problems of scheduling jobs on
  one machine (m=1) which where defined in Chapter 2": there is no chapter 2, and the previous part
  of the paper only defined 2 of these scheduling problems.

- p6, col1: in the same section: "The purpose of the designed ontology is to generate answers to
  questions concerning the strategy of solving one of the above mentioned problems": the statement
  is not clear. Could you give an example of such a question? How are represented these strategies?

- p7, section "Experiments": I don't think this sections reports any experiments. It mostly describes an implementation.

Reviewer's confidence.
* Reviewer's confidence
 4: (expert)
 3: (high)
 2: (medium)
 1: (low)

3

Suitable for a demo?.
* Suitable for a demo?
 3: yes
 2: maybe
 1: no

Nominate for Best Paper Award?.
* Nominate for Best Paper Award?
 [ ] yes

Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (assuming it is eligible) ?.
* Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (assuming it is eligible)?
 [ ] yes

Confidential remarks for the program committee. If you wish to add any remarks intended only for PC members please write them below. These remarks will only be seen by the PC members having access to reviews for this submission. They will not be sent to the authors. This field is optional.
