Recommandation:
 [X] Accept
 [ ] Minor Revision
 [ ] Major Revision
 [ ] Reject

Overall Manuscript Rating (1 - 100) : 75

For your convenience, and to take advantage of word processing features (e.g., spell-check, bullets, numbering), we suggest you use your regular word processing program (e.g., Microsoft Word, WordPerfect) when typing your review. You should then Copy and Paste your comments into the boxes provided. Click the Save & Submit Later button to save your comments and continue working.

 [X] In the event that this manuscript is rejected by this journal and transferred to another Elsevier journal I agree that this reviewer report, my name and email address may be transferred alongside it.

   Reviewer Guidelines

Please rate on a scale of 1-3 whether the Graphical Abstract is a meaningful and an accurate representation of the article. 1 = Meaningful; 2 = Not Meaningful; 3 = Not Provided. For more information, see www.elsevier.com/graphicalabstracts.

3

Please rate on a scale of 1-3 whether the Highlights are a meaningful and accurate representation of the article. 1 = Meaningful; 2 = Not Meaningful; 3 = Not Provided. For more information, see www.elsevier.com/highlights.

1

Reviewer Blind Comments to Author
Insert Special Character

The authors improved a lot the manuscript since their original and resubmitted version and I think the current version should be accepted for publication.



Reviewer Confidential Comments to Editor
Insert Special Character

For each question, please use the following scale to answer (place an x in the space provided):

"To what extent does the article meet this criterion?"

0	Fails by a large amount
1	Fails by a small amount
2	Succeeds by a small amount
3	Succeeds by a large amount
4	Not applicable

The subject addressed in this article is worthy of investigation.

3


The information presented was new.

2



The conclusions were supported by the data.

3



Is there a financial or other conflict of interest between your work and that of the authors?

YES __  NO _X_

Please note that your recommendation and reviewer report are expected to cover the Highlights and Graphical Abstract if submitted with the manuscript.

Please give a frank account of the strengths and weaknesses of the article:

Strengths:
- The problem is interesting, challenging and clearly relevant to the journal topics of interest.
- The approach that is used is an exact approach that produces very good results, as shown in the experimental section.

Weaknesses:
 - The translation of the problem into a CP Optimizer model is quite straightforward (though I think it worth being published because this type of approach is mostly overlooked by the OR community who mostly think: exact approach => MIP model)
