I think that the authors did a good job taking into account the
reviewers comments and that the paper can be accepted for publication
in the Journal of Heuristics.

Still, I noticed a few points where the description or comparison with
ORCA is not fair and that should be improved:

> According to its developers, ORCA faced difficulties when treating the
> resource  displacement   constraints.  Several constraint  programming
> techniques available in the ILOG Solver and  Scheduler, like the usage
> of transition times,  were tried by   the Petrobras team  when dealing
> with these constraints. A first approach created virtual activities to
> represent the set-up time. But, since it  is not  known  in advance if
> an activity   from another well  will  be scheduled  consecutively, it
> would be necessary to create virtual activities dynamically during the
> search for solutions. Of course, they would have  to be destroyed when
> backtracking.  This was a  complex process and  slowed down the search
> considerably.   Instead, an if-then  constraint was set, imposing that
> if the  previous activity executed by   the resource was  from another
> well, then  the  current  activity  was  shifted by  the corresponding
> set-up time. As   this constraint was  imposed  between each pair   of
> activities,  the number of  constraints to be added   to the model was
> quadratic in the number of activities.

The two approaches above do not explain why ILOG Scheduler transition
times could not be used in ORCA. On the contrary, transition times
were introduced in ILOG Scheduler precisely to avoid the drawbacks of
the two approaches described here! You should either precise the
reasons why transition times could not be used or mention that
alternative modeling of the problem in CP (for instance using
transition times) may dramatically change the performances of ORCA.

In the conclusion: 

> Here   we  contrast  two   approaches to   the  WDRDP:  the constraint
> programming tool ORCA and a GRASP implementation, dubbed GRASPW.

This formulation still sounds like a fair comparison between CP (in
general) and a GRASP approach was carried out which is not the case. It
could be rephrased as:

... : the original ORCA system based on constraint-programming and a
GRASP implementation, dubbed GRASPW.

> The combinations studied, however, already support the conclusion that
> the GRASPW heuristics greatly outperforms the original ORCA approach.

Same as above:

... the original ORCA implementation. 

A fair comparison with CP (and other approaches) could be performed
would some "synthetic" instances capturing most of the complexity of
the WDRDP problem be made available. I can only but strongly
encouraging the authors to make such a benchmark available.

Typos:
p12, section 2.4: Specifically, we created a  routine that, during the
partial construction of solutions, [it] searches

