Manuscript Number: CONS-D-13-00027
Title: Scheduling Scientific Experiments for Comet Exploration
Authors: G. Simonin, C. Artigues, E. Hebrard, and P. Lopez

[ ] Accept as is
[X] Accept subject to minor revisions
[ ] Major Revision Necessary
[ ] Reject

Recommendation: Accept subject to minor revisions

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reviewer Blind Comments to Author:

The paper describes a very interesting global constraint on the start/end times of data producing tasks 
subject to some limits on data transfer rate and available memory. The paper starts from a description of 
the real constraint that deals with individual memory blocks. This constraint is too costly to handle as 
it requires individual handling of memory blocks. An approximation of the real constraint is proposed and 
an upper-bound (reasonably low in practice) on the error is provided. A checking and some filtering algorithms 
are then proposed for the approximate constraint. The proposed constraint is then compared with the existing 
approach (based on reservoir propagation) and shown to outperform it, both in terms of pruning power 
and propagation time.

This is a very interesting paper, grounded on a real application and showing the interest of CP in the context.

The paper is well structured and clearly written, with useful illustrations when needed.

I think the paper could be improved by giving more details on two aspects:

1- Is it possible to provide some characterization of the propagation that is performed. 
For instance, is there some guarantee (considering the constraint alone, of course) that the 
proposed propagation computes the tighter start/end bounds of tasks ? And if not, what about the complexity of 
computing the tightest bounds? is it NP-Complete (that's my feeling but I may be wrong) ? If the propagation 
is not complete, do you have some idea why all the instances in the experimental section are solved 
backtrack free with your constraint?

2- Especially in the context of the CONSTRAINT journal, it would be useful to see if the proposed constraint 
could be somehow generalized/abstracted to a more general class of problems. For instance constraints between 
producing/consuming activities subject to limited transfer rate and limited stock capacities are frequent in 
refinery scheduling. There may be some common patterns.

Some more detailed comments:

- Section 3.1, around line 21: Is there no possibility of a direct transfer from the experiments to 
  the orbiter in case of visibility and if there is nothing else to transfer (mass memory is empty)?

- Section 3.1, around line 30: "More precisely we need ..." You should precise here that the unit of 
\pi is blk/s and the unit of p is s. 

- Section 3.1, second page, line 19: I'm not sure the fact the DataTransfer constraint is 
NP-complete to satisfy is a good justification for the fact you will need an approximated constraint 
(which is by the way also probably NP-complete to satisfy). The good justification really is the large 
number of individual blocks to consider (as you mention after).
 
- Section 5.1. Could you give a little bit more details on the way the search works/worked? What type of decisions, 
variables and value selection, etc. The problem is a satisfiability problem, not an optimization one, right? 
Also, it would be good to have an idea of the size of the problems (number of data-producing tasks)

- You say that only the first filtering rule was used in the experiments. Do you plan to rerun the experiments 
with the other filtering rules too. It would be very valuable to see their impact (domain reduction, propagation time).


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reviewer Confidential Comments to Editor:

Summarize briefly the reasons for your recommendation:

Very interesting paper, grounded on a real application and showing the interest of CP in the context.
The paper could be improved by (1) characterizing more precisely the type of propagation that is performed and 
(2) providing some hints if and how this type of constraint can be generalized to other problems.
