
TITLE: Propagation Rules for Precedence Graph with Optional Activities and Time Windows
AUTHOR(S): Roman Barták, Ondrej Cepek

1) SUMMARY (please provide brief answers)

- What is/are the main contribution(s) of the paper?

An approach for computing the transitive closure of a precedence graph
with optional activities.

2) TYPE OF THE PAPER

The paper reports on:
 [X] Preliminary research
 [ ] Mature research, but work still in progress
 [ ] Completed research


3) GENERAL RATINGS

Please rate the 6 following criteria by, each time, using only one of the
five following words: BAD, WEAK, FAIR, GOOD, EXCELLENT 

3a) Relevance:		        GOOD
3b) Originality:		WEAK
3c) Significance, Usefulness:   FAIR
3d) Technical soundness:        GOOD
3e) References:                 WEAK
3f) Presentation:               FAIR


4) SUGGESTED/REQUIRED MODIFICATIONS;

The main problem with this paper is that the described work is not
really original. The same approach is used in ILOG Scheduler since
version 4.4 which dates back to 1999.

Besides the description of the approach in the Scheduler Reference
Manual, it is also described in the following paper:

F. Focacci, P. Laborie and W. Nuijten. Solving Scheduling Problems
with Setup Times and Alternative Resources. Proc. AIPS 2000.

See p5, section Precedence Graph Constraint.

In this approach, activities are associated a boolean status
(contributes/not contributes) just like the valid/invalid status and
transitive closure is computed only through valid activities.

Note that the approach implemented in Scheduler extends the approach
proposed in the present paper as:
- the graph incrementally maintains the distinction between direct and
indirect precedences (indirect precedences are the redundant ones that
could be re-computed by transitive closure)
- it makes it also possible to represent "next" relations on unary
resources: activity a is next to activity b if and only if when both
activities are valid, activity b is the next activity to be executed
on the unary resource after b. The precedence graph of Scheduler also
handle this type of relations together with the optional status of
activities. Just as in the present paper, this "modal precedence
graph" is used to infer that some activities are necessarily invalid,
for example when present in a cycle of precedences where all the other
activities are necessarily valid.
- In ILOG Scheduler, this precedence graph also performs a stronger
propagation on alternative resources as it maintains the activity
time-bounds (earliest/latest start/end times) on each resource of the
alternative resource set would the activity be allocated the
resource. Using a constructive disjunction, this allows pruning the
dates of optional activities even when they are not constrained to be
valid.

Note also that propagations 2a/3a/4a are the same propagations as the
"precedence energy constraint" described in the following paper in the
more general framework of discrete capacity resources (not necessarily
unary capacity), which is triggered each time something changes (new
precedence, new time bound or new activity that is discovered to be valid):

P. Laborie. Algorithms for propagation resource constraints in AI
planning and scheduling: Existing approaches and new
results. Artificial Intelligence 143 (2003) 151-188. 2003.

See section 5.2.

The present paper seems to model the set of activities that "can be
before" a given activity A as a classical CSP variable. I'm not sure
this is a very good idea as it does not respect the semantics of a
classical CSP variable which should be assigned a unique value in a
solution. In the case of a set of predecessors, the semantics is the
one of a set variable, that is, a variable that, in a solution, will
be assigned a set (the set of predecessors in the
solution). Furthermore, sticking to the pure classical CSP model may
result in a limitation in terms of the events that can be attached to
the variables (e.g. difficult to incrementally distinguish between
direct/indirect successors as the set of direct successors does not
change monotonously) and/or inefficiencies for handling the domain of
those variables.


5) GENERAL RECOMMENDATION

5SA) [ ] recommended for acceptance as it is (full paper)
5WA) [ ] recommended for acceptance after necessary modifications
5PA) [X] recommended for acceptance as a short paper
5SR) [ ] not recommended for acceptance


6) REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE IN THE SUBJECT AREA OF THE PAPER

  [X] High
  [ ] Medium
  [ ] Low



----- INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMME COMMITTEE ------------------------

Name of the reviewer: Philippe Laborie

Comments for the Program Committee only (use this slot only if
necessary):



