
TITLE: Stratified Heuristic POCL Temporal Planning based on Planning Graphs and Constraint Programming
AUTHOR(S): Ioannis Refanidis

1) SUMMARY (please provide brief answers)

- What is/are the main contribution(s) of the paper?

The main contributions of the paper are some new usage of a temporal
planning graph to improve the constraint propagation and guide the
search of a POCL planner.

More precisely:
 * Eternal mutex and conditional mutex are extracted as disjunctions
   of temporal constraints in the partial plan.
 * Some dominance relations are proposed to prune the search based on
   the notion of subgoal chains.
 * A new heuristics is mentioned that takes into account the cost of
   clusters of mutex goals (although the description of this
   heuristics should be more detailed)


2) TYPE OF THE PAPER

The paper reports on:
 [X] Preliminary research
 [ ] Mature research, but work still in progress
 [ ] Completed research


3) GENERAL RATINGS

Please rate the 6 following criteria by, each time, using only one of the
five following words: BAD, WEAK, FAIR, GOOD, EXCELLENT 

3a) Relevance:			EXCELLENT
3b) Originality:		GOOD
3c) Significance, Usefulness:   FAIR
3d) Technical soundness:        FAIR
3e) References:                 GOOD
3f) Presentation:               FAIR


4) SUGGESTED/REQUIRED MODIFICATIONS;

The main ideas developed in the paper are, to the best of my
knowledge, original. Although there is no real evidence of the impact
they can have on the efficiency of a temporal planner, they seem very
interesting and a workshop like CPPS-05 is really the good place to
discuss them given the current state of the reported research.

The end of section "Temporal Planning Graphs" is particularly hard to
follow in details, especially as one goes deeper and deeper in the
hierarchy of functions. An example illustrating the construction of
the planning graph should be given.

In the same way, but to a lesser extent, the 4 functions in the end of
section on plan extraction should be informally described before the
more formal description.

The description of the heuristics should be more detailed. In
particular it is not clear how exactly clusters of mutex goals are
defined. Does a cluster correspond to a clique on the mutex graph ? It
is also not clear why, because mutex goals usually needs to be
achieved in sequence, the cost of a cluster is the maximum cost over
each individual goal.

I understand that, given the early stage of this work, no extensive
tests have been performed but it would be interesting to show some
results on other benchmark than the satellite examples which, I
assume, have all more or less the same structure and building blocks.

Some typos:
p3, l1: achieced
p3, l9: cmuxex
p6, l3: (although it may be less costly than on "of SWITCH OFF") 
p7, l11: I assume one should read "notP in Eff(B)" instead of "notP in Prec(B)"

5) GENERAL RECOMMENDATION

5SA) [ ] recommended for acceptance as it is (full paper)
5WA) [X] recommended for acceptance after necessary modifications
5PA) [ ] recommended for acceptance as a short paper
5SR) [ ] not recommended for acceptance


6) REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE IN THE SUBJECT AREA OF THE PAPER

  [ ] High
  [X] Medium
  [ ] Low



----- INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMME COMMITTEE ------------------------

Name of the reviewer: Philippe Laborie

Comments for the Program Committee only (use this slot only if
necessary):



